---
recall: header
---

# 34. Aside: Visibility, Order & Negative Margin  
Practice: we just need an h1 and a p...
-----------------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      
   </style>
</head>

<body>
   <h1>Hello World</h1>
   <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Doloremque beatae a enim, consequuntur pariatur voluptatem?</p>
</body>

</html>
----------------------------------------------

*(34.1) Visibility (display: none;)*...

the first thing I want to talk about is display: none;  

we looked at the display property where we could display block, display inline, inline block,  
 
later on we're going to look at display flex display grid.  
 
* There's also something called display none, which will just remove the element from the browser completely  
 
So I'm going to take the H1 and I'm going to  

set display to none...

```
h1 {
display: none;
}  
```  
 
and save  
 
And notice it completely goes away.  
 
So this can be very useful especially when it comes to building responsive Web sites and responsive applications  
 
because sometimes you might want something not to show on mobile screens. So this comes in handy

*(34.2) Now there's also a property called visibility.*...

so we can set visibility to hidden...

```
h1 {
visibility: hidden;
}  
```  
 
notice it goes away but the big difference here is that it still takes up the space.  
  
* It's still there in terms of the space.

*(34.3) the order of precedence*...

All right so the next thing I want to look at is the order of precedence  
 
So basically if I take this H1 here  
 
and I give it a color of blue I save that.  
 
Obviously it's going to turn blue  
 
but if I give this a class of let's just say hello  
 
and up here I say dot hello and give that a color of red and save it turns red.  
 
* So normally the further down the style is that that's what's going to take precedence  
 
* however targeting a class is going to override targeting the actual element.  
 
And if I take this class of how low and I move it above the H1  
 
you might think that while now it's going to be fixed this  
 
you might think now it's gonna be blue because this is further down.  
 
However if I save it's still red.  
 
And the reason for that is is  
 
* having a specific class and targeting that it's going to override just the H1 itself.


*(34.4) the important flag*...

if you come to a situation where you in this might happen  
 
if you're dealing with other style sheets  
 
maybe you're using some kind of CSX framework  
 
and you're bringing an external style sheets as well  
 
and you want your style to override another style you can use the important flag...

```
h1 {
color: blue !important;
}  
```  
  
Now if I save this you can see now it's blue  
 
because this this important flag is going to say it doesn't matter if there's a class of hello or anything else and nothing else matters this should take precedence.  
 
And the only way that that this is going to work is if I also put important on this which is stupid and defeats the purpose but just to show you that it works.  
 
We'll go ahead and save that and that will be red

*(34.5) negative margin values*...

we went over margin and over padding  
 
but we didn't go over negative margin values  
 
* which you really should try to avoid if you can but it is possible  

so of course we can take this H1...

```
h1 {
color: blue !important;
margin-top: -30px;
margin-left: -30px;
}
```

*So you can have negative values with margins.  
 
However you can't do it with padding.  
 
