# 221. Adding the "script" HTML Element

_- => START PRACTICE_

- => Now to see this all in action. I'm again, back in an empty project folder,

```
I have this gitignore file, which I mentioned before already helps me create code snapshots. You won't have that and you don't need it.

And
```

1. in this empty folder, which I did open in visual studio code here, I will `create a new index HTML file`.

2. And in this index HTML file, I will `create a brand new HTML skeleton` by entering an exclamation mark, and then in this auto overlay, which I get here, I hit tab to automatically create this skeleton.

3. And here I'll `just give this a title of "JavaScript introduction".`

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

> And now for the moment, we actually won't add any meaningful HTML content.

> Instead

- => for the moment, I just want to start with some JavaScript code and `how we can include it in our HTML file`.

> And that's actually the first thing I want to do.

> How can we now add JavaScript code to this project here to this HTML page?

- => Now there are different ways of doing it, but the most straight forward and easiest way of adding JavaScript to HTML file is to `add a special script HTML element`,

> opening and closing, you need both tags. This is not a self-closing tag,

> and it's not a self-closing tag because there is content which you can put between those tags

> and that content would be the actual JavaScript code.

- => So that's `very similar to the style tags` we learned about earlier in the course, where we put CSS code between those tags.

- => Now we have the script tags and we put JavaScript code between those tags, quite straightforward.

- => Now, when it comes to the placement of that script element, it's basically up to you.

> For the style tags, I strongly recommended that you put those into the head section. For JavaScript, I basically have the same recommendation, but you will also, quite frequently see it being added in the body.

- => It's up to you, but it is worth mentioning and highlighting that like style, script won't render anything visible on the screen. So putting it into the body doesn't make a lot of sense from that perspective.

4. And hence here, I'll actually also put it into the head section.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script></script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

> Now, but we know script tags, as I mentioned, we can write some JavaScript code. And to get started let's practice working with variables and values.
