---
recall: header
---

# 111. What Is Sass  

*So in this section we're going to go over what Sass is*...

We're going to look at a few examples.  
 
Talk about the different features that SAS includes  
 
and then in the next section we'll be creating our final project which will be a portfolio Web site.  
 
We'll be using SASS along with a bunch of other stuff that we've learned in the course. All right.

*So what is SASS?*... 

it stands for syntactically awesome style sheets  
 
and it's a css pre processor  
 
and you may also see see it referred to as a CSS pre compiler or a C Ss extension or even a style sheet language.  

*Now the reason we use SASS is*...

because it enhances CSS beyond its natural capabilities.  
 
It allows us to use CSS more like an actual programming language  
 
and it can cut down repeated code.  
 
It can allow us to structure things in a more efficient way.

*SASS isn't the only pretty processor available*...

There's also less  
 
there's stylists  
 
and there's some others  
 
however SASS is by far the most popular at this point. All right.

*So how does SAS actually work?*...

Because this confuses a lot of beginners  
 
SASS is written in one of two file extensions, So either .scss or .sass  
 
Now .scss is usually preferred and I'll talk about the difference between the two and a little bit  
 
but I think what confuses people about SASS is that the browser doesn't actually read SASS files like it does CSS.  
 
You can't simply add a link tag and then include you know style .scss like you can with a standard .css file at least not yet.  
 
So it has to be compiled down to regular CSS and then that's what you include in your website or application. All right

*Now as far as compiling goes there's many different programs to do this*...
 
What I like to use is something called Node SASS which is installed with NPM which is the node package manager  
 
and we can create a simple NPM script that will watch a certain folder where we create our SASS files  
 
and then it will compile anything we write into regular CSS and put that in another folder.  
 
so we'll be using Node SASS for the most part

*but I'm also gonna show you an alternative graphical program called koala*...

which is a program you install and you have a graphical user interface and you can compile SASS that way

*Now you also have VScode extensions that can compile SASS*...

You may want to look into that.  
 
However I know that some students might not be using VScode so I didn't want to go with a V.S. code extension

*so what exactly does SASS offer us?, Why is it worth using?*...

so like I said SASS allows us to write CSS more like a dynamic programming language

*it offers variables*...

Now you're probably thinking well we aren't. We've already seen variables in CSS  
 
However CSS variables are fairly new.  
 
Also you saw the syntax it's not that pretty using the VAR and so on  

SAS variables are more like standard programming language 

*variables nesting is probably the main reason that I use SASS*...

we can ness styles  
 
if we have let's say a header tag and inside the header there's an H1 and maybe a ul  
 
we can in our SASS style sheets we can put header and then inside the curly braces we can put H1, ul if we have some li in the ul we can nest those as well.  
 
It's kind of hard to explain but once we get into it and you see it visually it will make a lot more sense.  
 
So you can basically structure your CSS like you do your html and html is nested.

*So you also have imports and partials*...

now with regular CSS you can import other CSS files, However it makes a separate request to the server to get each file  
 
what SASS does is it builds on top of the current CSS import, but instead of requiring a whole new HTTP request to the server, it will take that file and it will combine it with the file you're importing so that you can serve a single CSS file to the web browser.  
 
So it's much more efficient  
 
and you can create as many different SASS files for different elements or however you want to structure your CSS.

*We also have functions and mixins*... 

which are predefined styling. 
 
We can set and call functions or mixins whenever we want  
 
This helps us stick to the drive principle when programming which stands for don't repeat yourself  
 
instead of writing the same block of CSS over and over we can stick it in a function and use it.

*Then we have conditionals*...

which are basically if else statements  
 
so we can say you know do something based on a certain condition.

*We also have inheritance*...

which allows us to keep our CSS dry 

because we can take a class and have another class inherit its properties and styling. 

*We also have operators for calculations*...

*We have color functions*...
 
to lighten or darken colors.  
 
And these are great for hover effects  

*now the last thing I want to talk about before we jump in is the difference between an SCSS file and a SASS file*... 

*So as you can see with the SASS file*...
 
(and in both our SASS is it's just the file extension),  
 
But with this syntax you see there's no curly braces  
 
so it works on indents  
 
if you want to be inside this a tag here you would indent in  
 
and then for the hover if you want a style that you would indent again  
 
and I'm not really too fond of this the style

*most people use this, SCSS*...

which as you can see is is basically the same syntax as CSS  
 
except we have some additional features such as variables. OK  
 
so we'll be using SCSS  
 
but if you want to look more and to the .sass type of syntax you can do that.

