# 269. Deleting DOM Elements

- => Inserting elements is nice and good to know, but of course, sometimes you want to remove elements and how do you remove elements now?

- => Well, for dis you will have only two steps that you need to execute.

1. You need to select the element that should be removed,

2. and then you need to remove it.

```js
// REMOVE ELEMENTS
// 1. Select the element that should be removed

// 2. Remove it!
```

> So let's see how that works.

- => 1. Now, of course, we do know how selecting an element works and therefore let's say we want to remove this h1 element `<h1 id="heading-one">Hi there!</h1>`

1. for this to remove it. We first of all, need to select it. And here all, just add a new variable `firstH1Element`,

```js
// REMOVE ELEMENTS
// 1. Select the element that should be removed

let firstH1Element =

// 2. Remove it!
```

2. and I can now get access to it by using document query selector H one, which will select me the first H one element It finds on the page,

```js
// REMOVE ELEMENTS
// 1. Select the element that should be removed

let firstH1Element = document.querySelector('h1')

// 2. Remove it!
```

> which is also our only H one element.

- Alternatively I could of course have selected it by its ID. That would be fine too.

- => 2. Now, did we do have it selected We can remove it by simply using first H one element and then calling the `remove()` method on it.

```js
// REMOVE ELEMENTS
// 1. Select the element that should be removed

let firstH1Element = document.querySelector('h1')

// 2. Remove it!

firstH1Element.remove()
```

> And this method, if called on an object on an HTML element object does just what the name implies. It removes that object.

> So if I saved that and I go back, this element is gone. The H one element is gone and we can no longer see it there.

- => And alternative way of removing. It would be to select its parentElement. (So the body in this case,) and calling removeChild on that element,

```js
// REMOVE ELEMENTS
// 1. Select the element that should be removed

let firstH1Element = document.querySelector('h1')

// 2. Remove it!

firstH1Element.remove()
firstH1Element.parentElement.removeChild(firstH1Element)
```

> so on that body now, and then pass that child that should be removed. So the first age, one element to it,

- => this is way longer and more complex than doing it like this. But I am mentioning it because this approach here using remove does not work in older browsers,

> like old versions of the internet Explorer.

> And hence, if you're building a website that should also work on those super old browsers,

> then this is a safer way of removing an element, which will be supported on such older browsers as well.

- So this is for older browsers.

- => Of course, if you're targeting modern browsers, then using the shorter approach is better because it's shorter and you can see removing elements is really straightforward and not difficult.

> Now here, I'm getting an error because I'm trying to basically remove a child that I did already remove before. If I comment this out though, then dissolved.

> I got rid of the error and the H one element is deleted.

> So this approach also works. You can use either of the two.
