---
recall: header
---

# 71. Text Shadows  
Practice:
----------------------------------------
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
   h1 {
      font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
      font-size: 4rem;
   }
   </style>
</head>
<body>
   <h1 class="a">Welcome To My Course</h1>
   <h1 class="b">Welcome To My Course</h1>
   <h1 class="c">Welcome To My Course</h1>
   <h1 class="d">Welcome To My Course</h1>
</body>
</html>
```
----------------------------------------

*(71.1) text-shadows*...

So let's start off with the first one which is an H one with a class of A.  
 
And of course I could just do dot a but I just want to I'm changing things up just see you guys remember that you can do this.  
 
You don't know you can do just a or you can target the H one with the class of a.  
 
So, let me just paste this in, just like with box shadow we have a couple different values  
 
so we have the h-shadow, which is horizontal shadow  
 
and the vertical or V-shadow  
 
and the color.  
 
So let's go ahead and add to this first one...

*text-shadow:*  
 
And I want to use rem units I'm just going to do 0.2rem H-shadow  
 
and 0.2rem v-shadow  
 
and for color I'm going to use steelblue.  
 
So let's save that see what it looks like...

```
h1.a {
/* h-shadow | v-shadow | color */
text-shadow: 0.2rem 0.2rem steelblue;
}  
```  
 
* So as you can see the the horizontal shadow basically is this way vertical shadow is going down it's going this way. So it kind of comes off diagonal this way.

*(71.2) text-shadows blur*...

Now just like with the box shadow we can also have a blur.  
 
So let's do an H1 let's do each one B.  
 
So we're now targeting the B class which is the second one here.  
 
And spaces in here so it's actually blur and then color and going to copy what we already have appear and pieces in. So let's do let's do for RAM will do for RAM 3 ram for the V shadow and then for the blur.  
 
Let's do. We'll do. Point seven RAM and we'll keep steel blue. So let's save that...

```
h1.b {
/* h-shadow | v-shadow | blur | color */
text-shadow: 0.4rem 0.3rem 0.7rem steelblue;
}  
```  
 
* and I can see that we have the the blur effect  
 
* and you can use pixels if you want. It doesn't have to be ram units but that gives kind of a different look.

*(71.3) white text and shadow*...

So next thing I want to do is white text. So it's to H1 dots see let's do white text. So basically what we're doing is setting the color to white I save that it's going to just completely disappear.  
 
But what we can do is add the shadow so that we can actually make out the text.  
 
So we'll do two zero point two Ram zero point two Ram. Let's do one ram for the blur and let's do still below and save... 

```
h1.c {
/* White Text */
color: #fff;
text-shadow: 0.2rem 0.2rem 1rem steelblue;
}  
```  
 
* and it's going to look like that.  
 
So we get some pretty cool text effects here.  
 
Again not something that I would really use that much but it's good to know.

*(71.4) Negative Values*...

So for the last one here I want to show you that we can use negative values. OK. So I'm just going to copy this. Let's grab this one here and instead of it coming this way I want it to go up. I want to go this way.  
 
So we could add a negative value for the H shadow and the v shadow and we'll save...

```
h1.d {
/* Negative Values */
text-shadow: -0.4rem -0.3rem 0.7rem steelblue;
}  
```  
 
And now I could see that the blur is is up here rather than down here OK. So that's about it guys. We probably won't use this this text shadow again.  
 
I just wanted to include it in the course in case you like it and you want to use it maybe in like a showcase area or something like that. All right. So I will see you in the next video.