# 226. Outsourcing JavaScript Code Into External Files

```
Now as we continue writing JavaScript code, we add more and more code to this HTML file. And that's important to keep in mind. We are still in a HTML file in here.

And
```

- => just as with the CSS code between the style tax earlier in the course, we also don't want to add too much JavaScript code to the HTML file.

> Instead The HTML filed should stay focused on HTML and should not be bloated with all our script code.

> Because of course this here is a simple file. It has basically no real HTML content, since I want to focus on Java script here, but that's not realistic in a reality,

> we would probably have a lot of HTML content. And then also having a lot of script code in here can make it harder to work with that file and manage this file efficiently.

- => Therefore, instead of having that script code in here, we typically want to outsource that code into a separate file and that's something we can easily do.

1. We can add a new file here in our project folder, and we can give this file. Any name of our choice, for example, app.JS.

> The only thing which is not up to you is the file extension. That should be dot JS, which stands for JavaScript.

> And since we're going to the store, some Java script code in that file, that's the extension we should use.

> But the part in front of the extension is up to you. That could be scripts dot JS, or site dot JS. And here I'll just choose app dot JS, but it is up to you.

2. Now we can grab our JavaScript code and only the code between the script tags, not including the script tags,

just as we did it with the CSS code before as well. We took the CSS code between the style tags, not including the style tags.

3. And then we cut that JavaScript code, from the HTML file and paste it into our app JS file.

> And here I'll press that format document shortcut to quickly format this appropriately and get rid of that extra white space.

```js
let age = 32
let greetingText = "Hi, I'm Max!!!!"
alert(greetingText)
alert(greetingText)
greetingText = 'Hi, I am really Max!'
alert(age)
alert(age)
```

> If I would leave the white space here, the code would still work, but it's harder to read and then over here, I want to get rid of it

> kind of the opposite of what we had with HTML, There we added indentation to make our code easier to read

> with JavaScript, Since we have a line after line and not really this nesting, which we have in HTML, we typically don't add redundant white space like this

> Though we'll see some use cases for white space later on.

4. Now as a side note, hitting that format document shortcuts did add double quotes here around the dispersed string for me.

> And it did add those double quotes because I had this escaped single quote in there and keep in mind what I had here before was this, this kind of string,

> and that was valid code, but the prettier extension, which I'm using for formatting here actually changes this slightly so that we don't have to escape the single quote character anymore. As it wraps this overall string with double quotes,

> that's an alternative way of doing it. And even though I'm a fan of consistency, that's what the auto format shortcut does for me here.

> And we could change the configuration, but we can also just stick to that behavior. I just wanted to highlight it here,

5. but now we got our JavaScript code in here and then index HTML. We can now get rid of these script tags.

- => And now to question just as how we can link this HTML file to this Java script file so that this code still is executed in our browser.

> And you could think that you again, use this link element, which we used for style sheets. So for a CSS files as well, maybe we need to add scripts here for derail attribute, but unfortunately that's not the case.

> It would make sense, but it's simply not how HTML works when it comes to linking scripts.

- => And for that, it's always important to keep in mind that HTML is a language with a lot of history. It was not written and invented on one day.

> Instead it evolved over many, many years and new features were added and improved. And that's why we don't have to as uniform way of linking to external resources.

- => And for linking to scripts, we therefore indeed, again, used to script tags opening and closing,

1. and we use them differently now instead of putting our script code between those tacks, we now add the SRC attribute here. So does source attribute not ref,

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src=""></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

> but source as we did it on the image.

2. And then here we specify a path to the JavaScript file we want to include here.

> And that that can be a URL, a link to an external server with some exposed to JavaScript file,

> or like we have it in this case to a local file, which is our project directory and here it's app.JS. So I'll just point at this file, including the file extension here,

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="app.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

- => with that, we are telling the browser to link, to import this JavaScript file and to load that JavaScript code and also execute it.

- => Now, one thing is very important here, even though we have no code between the opening and closing script tag, it's not allowed to use this as a void element. So removing the closing script tag is not allowed

> as you can already tell, by the errors I'm getting here in my IDE, you have to have that closing script tag,

- => and you also should not add any JavaScript code between these script tags If you have that source attribute and you are linking to an external file.

> If you want to use code between the script tags, you should not add the source attribute,

> but here, of course, I don't want to write code between the script tax. I want to link to the external JavaScript file instead. And that's now how we can do that.

> If we save all of this, we again get these alerts, which we got before as well. But now through that external JavaScript file.
