---
recall: header
--- 

# 33. Form Style Solution
-----------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8" />
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="ie=edge" />
   <title>Form Styling</title>
   <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Raleway" rel="stylesheet" />
   <style>
      * {
         /* 
        -May want to add "border-box for "box-sizing so padding does not affect width
        -Reset margin and padding 
       */
       box-sizing: border-box;
       margin: 0px;
       padding: 0px;
      }

      body {
         /* 
          -Background color is #344a72
        */
         font-family: 'Raleway', sans-serif;
         background-color: #344a72;

      }

      a {
         /* 
        Underlined links are ugly :)
       */
       text-decoration: none;
      }

      #container {
         /* 
        -Remember, margin: auto on left and right will center a block element 
        -I would also set a "max-width" for responsiveness
        -May want to add some padding
        */
        max-width: 500px;
        margin: auto;

      }

      .form-wrap {
         /* 
          This is the white area around the form and heading, etc
        */
        background-color: #f4f4f4;
      }

      .form-wrap h1,
      .form-wrap p {
         /* 
          May want to center these
        */
        text-align: center;
        line-height: 120%;
      }

      .form-wrap .form-group {
         /* 
          Each label, input is wrapped in .form-group
        */
      }

      .form-wrap .form-group label {
         /* 
          Label should be turned into a block element
        */
      }

      .form-wrap .form-group input {
         /* 
          Inputs should reach accross the .form-wrap 100% and have some padding
        */
      }

      .form-wrap button {
         /* 
          Button should wrap accross 100% and display as block
          Background color for button is #49c1a2
        */
      }

      .form-wrap button:hover {
         /* 
          Hover background color for button is #37a08e
        */
      }

      .form-wrap .bottom-text {
         /* 
          Bottom text is smaller
        */
      }

      footer {
         /* 
        Should be centered
       */
      }

      footer a {
         /* 
          Footer link color is #49c1a2
        */
      }
   </style>
</head>

<body>
   <div id="container">
      <div class="form-wrap">
         <h1>Sign Up</h1>
         <p>It's free and only takes a minute</p>
         <form>
            <div class="form-group">
               <label for="first-name">First Name</label>
               <input type="text" name="firstName" id="first-name" />
            </div>
            <div class="form-group">
               <label for="last-name">Last Name</label>
               <input type="text" name="lastName" id="last-name" />
            </div>
            <div class="form-group">
               <label for="email">Email</label>
               <input type="email" name="email" id="email" />
            </div>
            <div class="form-group">
               <label for="password">Password</label>
               <input type="password" name="password" id="password" />
            </div>
            <div class="form-group">
               <label for="password2">Confirm Password</label>
               <input type="password" name="pasword2" id="password2" />
            </div>
            <button type="submit" class="btn">Sign Up</button>
            <p class="bottom-text">
               By clicking the Sign Up button, you agree to our
               <a href="#">Terms & Conditions</a> and
               <a href="#">Privacy Policy</a>
            </p>
         </form>
      </div>
      <footer>
         <p>Already have an account? <a href="#">Login Here</a></p>
      </footer>
   </div>
</body>

</html>
-----------------------------------------

*(33.1) the asterisk (css reset)*

So let's start off with the asterisk here:  
 
so as the hint says we might want to add Border box for the box sizing property...

so the padding doesn't affect the width...

We also want to reset the margin and padding that's pretty self-explanatory...

So let's go ahead and set...

*box-sizing: border-box;*

and let's clear out the...

*margin: 0px;*

and...

*padding: 0px;*  
 
on everything OK. So I'll save that...

``` 
* {
box-sizing: border-box;
margin:0;
padding: 0;
}  
```   
 
Now all the margin in padding is removed.


*(33.2) body (global css)*...

So we used Raleway for the font 

as you can see it's already bringing it's already brought in here. 

So let's go ahead and actually set the...

*font-family: 'Raleway', sans-serif;*

Now we have our font and the hint there is the background_color  
 
which is that hexadecimal value  
 
let's do background-color...

*background-color: #344a72;*

We are going to have that white form wrap but we can just change the font color in there...

*color: #fff;*

And then the last thing I want to do here is set the...

*line-height: 1.8;*

```
body {
font-family: 'Raleway', sans-serif;
background: #344a72;
color: #fff;
line-height: 1.8;
}
```

*(33.3) links (a tags)*...

let's see underlines are ugly. So let's remove that. Remember...

*text-decoration: none;*  
 
Want to set that none that will get rid of all the underlines...

```
a {
text-decoration: none;
}
```

*(33.4) container (wrapper)*...

Let's go to our container  
 
so remember we want to center the form.  
 
So we want to use...

margin auto

and we also want to...

set a max width

and we may want to add some padding  
 
so let's let's go ahead and do that  
 
So going to set the margin to auto but...

*on the top and bottom I'm going to set 30 pixels just to move the container down a little bit...

*margin: 30px auto;*

OK. We'll set a max width  
 
and it's a pretty thin or narrow form. So we're going to set this to 400 pixels...

*max-width: 400px;*

and then let's set the margin.  
 
I'm sorry not the margin clarity that want to set the padding to 20 pixels...

*padding: 20px;*  
 
and save that...

```
#container {
margin: 30px auto;
max-width: 400px;
padding: 20px;
}
```

*(33.5) form-wrap (the actual form)*...

So next we have the form wrap.  
 
This is the white area around the form in the heading and all this.  
 
So let's go ahead and do that.  
 
Let's say...

background let's set that to white...

*background: #fff;*

and then for padding.  
 
I'm going to set that to 15 pixels on the top and bottom and 25 on the left and right...

*padding: 15px 25px;*

So since our text is white our body text we want to change the color of this form wrap text. 

So let's change that to 3 3 3 OK so that's our form...

*color: #333;*

*(33.6) form-wrap h1, form-wrap p*...
 
Now let's move on to the H1 in paragraph.  
 
We want to center these.  
 
So we want to use the text align and we want to set that to center...

*text-align: center;*  
 
We don't want to center everything.  
 
That's why I didn't add it to the form right.  
 
We don't want these the inputs and stuff centered we just want the heading in the paragraph centered. All right... 

```
.form-wrap h1,
.form-wrap p {
text-align: center;
}
```

*(33.7) form group (each label/input pair)*...  
 
So each label input is wrapped in form group. 

So what I'm going to do is just add a margin top to each form group. 

So margin top let's do 15 pixels...

*margin-top: 15px;*  
 
just push him push each one down...

```
.form-wrap .form-group {
margin-top: 15px;
}
```

*(33.8) labels (.form-wrap .form-group label)*...  
 
So for the label we want that to be displayed as a block level element.  
 
So let's use the display property set that to block...

*display: block;*

and I'm going to change the color to Let's do triple six...

*color: #666;*  
 
and save...

```
.form-wrap .form-group label {
display: block;
color: #666;
}
```

*(33.9) inputs (.form-wrap .form-group input)*...

so for the inputs they should go all the way across. 

By default they don't. 

And then we also want them to have some padding 

because they're much too skinny right now. 

So let's do that. 

Let's say we want the width to be 100 percent...

*width: 100%;*  
 
We want it to go all the way across.
 
And let's add 10 pixels padding to each input...

*padding: 10px;*

Let's also set the border to Let's do DDD one pixel solid...
 
*border: #ddd 1px solid;*  
 
and let's give it a kind of a rounded border  
 
so we'll say...

border radius  
 
and let's do just five pixels for each one...

*border-radius: 5px;*  
 
so that makes these the inputs look much cleaner...

```
.form-wrap .form-group input {
width: 100%;
padding: 10px;
border: #ddd 1px solid;
border-radius: 5px;
}
```

*(33.10) button (.form-wrap button)*...  
 
Next we have the button  
 
so button should wrap across 100 percent  
 
and display as block  
 
background color is this.  
 
So let's first of all just grab that and set the background to that...
 
*background: #49c1a2;*

and let's set the display to block...

*display: block;*

and then we want it to go all the way across.  
 
So let's do a width of 100 percent...

*width: 100%;*  
 
Now you can see it goes all the way across

we need some padding here.  
 
So it's two padding 10 pixels all the way around...

*padding: 10px;*

We want to bring it down from the from the top input.  
 
You can see it's kind of stuck to it right now 

so let's do a margin top . So we'll do 20 pixels push it down...

*margin-top: 20px;*

Let's also make the color of the text white.  
 
So we'll see a color white...

*color: #fff;*

Let's change the pointer to a cursor  
 
notice that if we go over a button doesn't change to a cursor  
 
we want that to happen so we'll say cursor pointer...

*cursor: pointer;*  
 
And now when we have hover it we get the pointer.

*(33.11) button on hover*...

The hover  
 
So I wanted to to have kind of a different color or just get a bit lighter on the hover  
 
and you can see I actually gave you the hexadecimal value here  
 
so we're just going to go ahead and add the background and make it that color...

```
.form-wrap button:hover {
background: #37a08e
}  
```  
 
So now if I have rover it it actually gets darker.

*(33.12) bottom-text*...

So the bottom text which is this right here  
 
we want to make that smaller  
 
so the default remember is 16 pixels  
 
so let's set the font size here to 13 pixels...
 
*font-size: 13px;*

And I'm also going to move it down a bit  
 
by doing a margin top of 20 pixels...

*margin-top: 20px;*

```
.form-wrap .bottom-text {
font-size: 13px;
margin-top: 20px;
}
```

*(33.13) footer*...

Next thing is the footer.  
 
So this right here we want this to be centered.  
 
We also want to push it down a little bit.  
 
So let's say text align center...

*text-align: center;*

Let's do margin dash top and let's move it down 10 pixels...

*margin-top: 10px;*  
 
OK so now it's centered it's moved down...

```
footer {
text-align: center;
margin-top: 10px;
}
```

*(33.14) footer link (footer a)*...  
 
Last thing is the link. 

So I gave you the color for the link. 

So we're gonna change that. 

That's a color So paste that in and save and that's it...

*color:#49c1a2*

``` 
footer a {
color:#49c1a2
}
```

So don't get discouraged if you don't have this exact CSX or if you couldn't do it or if you can only do part of it that's absolutely fine. 