# 225. A Second Variable & Practice

- => Now that we covered some important basics about variables, I want you to practice what we learnt up to this point.

1. And I want you to take this 32, value you this number and store it in a variable instead of using it here in the place where we need it. Instead,

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      let greetingText = "Hi, I'm Max!!!!"
      alert(greetingText)
      alert(greetingText)
      greetingText = 'Hi, I am really Max!'
      alert(32)
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

> store it in a variable at the beginning of our script, and then use that variable down here.

> Maybe also we'll use two alerts that then work with that variable to make adding that variable a bit more useful.

> Now, one important hint, which you will need for creating this variable, this value 32 could be a age, but that might matter for picking a proper variable name.

> That's my challenge for you, add this new variable, I'll give you a short pause, to pause the video and try this on your own thereafter, we'll do this together.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      let greetingText = "Hi, I'm Max!!!!"
      let userAge = 32
      alert(greetingText)
      alert(greetingText)
      greetingText = 'Hi, I am really Max!'
      alert('what is the user age?)
      alert(userAge)
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

- => So, did you succeed? Let's do this together.

1. We wanna create a second variable. And I mentioned that you should add it somewhere at the beginning of this script,

> though I wanna emphasize that you can add the variables anywhere in your script.

> You can add them at the end, in between and at the beginning.

> Now at the end doesn't make sense here since I wanna use it in my code. So adding the variable thereafter would not work since the code is executed from top to bottom.

> Adding it in the middle or maybe a right before I plan on using it would work.

> But since my instruction for you was to add it at the beginning of the script,

> I wanna add it here or maybe after greeting text, up to you.

2. I will add it right at the top.

> Now we did learn that `we can now add a new variable with the let keyword.` That's what we used before as well.

> And then we need to pick a name. That name as you learnt is up to you, but has to follow certain rules and conventions

> and which name we choose depends on what that value represents. And here, I'm assuming it represents my age.

3.  So I will name the variable age.

> Now that's my name and the interesting thing about this name of course is that, unlike greeting text, this has no capital characters inside of it because that's not a must do.

> It's only a must to do if your variable name actually consists of multiple words, sometimes you might need that to properly describe the value.

> In the case of age, the word age is enough to describe that. Guess what, a number that represents an age is stored in there.

> We could of course also choose `userAge` instead, and then write it like this, but that's totally optional. It would also be fine though,

> but here I'll go for age

4. and then store 32 as a value. And I will also add that semi-colon, since that is the style I will use in this course,

> and that is a style you will see a lot out there in general.

5. And now that this variable was created, we can use it. We can use it here for the alert and output age by referencing it.

> So by basically telling JavaScript and therefore the browser, "Hey, please show an alert" and the content of the alert should be the value stored in age. That's what we're telling JavaScript here.

6. And of course we can also output multiple alerts for this age like this.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      let age = 32
      let greetingText = "Hi, I'm Max!!!!"
      alert(greetingText)
      alert(greetingText)
      greetingText = 'Hi, I am really Max!'
      alert(age)
      alert(age)
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

> And if I save that, if I reload this page, I get "Hi I'm Max", twice, and then that changed text.

> And then there after, I get my age, 32 being output twice.

> And of course we could now also change that variable somewhere and assign a new value again with the equal sign, as we're doing it with creating text.

> And that's something you can do, but not something you need to do here. And that's now another variable introduced.
