# 300. Practice Time: The "for-of" Loop

```
Now that was the first example where we see one scenario where a for loop could be helpful.
```

- => In the next example, we also will need a loop because I wanna highlight all the elements, which we have here, all the anchor elements I mean, which we have in this text here.

We've got three anchor elements and they might be a bit hard to see. That's why we have this button, which when clicked, should highlight them.

- => Now to highlight them, in style.CSS I got this highlight class, which when applied to an anchor element, adds this purple background and increases the padding a little bit.

```css
a.highlight {
  background-color: rgb(63, 4, 141);
  padding: 0.25rem;
}
```

- => And therefore, that's now the next exercise, which I will work on here. It's the Highlight links exercise.

1. Now, if we have a look at index.html and there at this section that contains all the content we need for this exercise,

```html
<section id="highlight-links">
  <h2>Highlight Links</h2>
  <button>Highlight all links in the text</button>
  <p
    >This is some text that also contains useful links (like <a href="">this one</a> that actually
    lead nowhere. They lead nowhere because this text and example is <strong>not</strong> about the
    anchor elements or the link destinations but instead about JavaScript.</p
  >
  <p
    >Because you can use
    <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript">JavaScript</a> (okay, this
    link actually <strong>does</strong> lead somewhere) not just for funny demos or useless examples
    but for real useful things - like highlighting all the links in a text.
  </p>
  <p
    >You can dive even deeper into JavaScript with one of our bestselling, deep-dive,
    JavaScript-focused <a href="https://academind.com/courses/">courses</a>.</p
  >
</section>
```

- then we see that we will again need to get access to this button here.

- And we also will need to get access to all the anchor elements which we have in this text.

- => And therefore, here I'll first of all start by getting access to my button by creating a new constant, the highlightLinksButtonElement.

And here, I'll again use document.querySelector

and actually I'll use the same approach as before

and select a button in an element that has a certain ID. And here, unlike before, we need this approach because now this of course is not the first button on the page anymore.

So the wrapping element has an idea of highlight-links. Hence, we can use this ID here to select the first button in an element with that ID by simply using highlight-links as an ID here in this query selector CSS query parameter.

```js
// Highlight links

const highlightLinksButtonElement = document.querySelector('#highlight-links button')
```

> That should give us access to this button.

1. Then we'll need a function that should be triggered when the button is clicked and I'll name this function highlightLinks like this

```js
// Highlight links

const highlightLinksButtonElement = document.querySelector('#highlight-links button')

function highlightLinks() {}
```

2. and I then, before we add the code in the function, will reach out to this highlightLinksButtonElement and add that event listener for the click event and point at highlightLinks at this function here.

```js
// Highlight links

const highlightLinksButtonElement = document.querySelector('#highlight-links button')

function highlightLinks() {}

highlightLinksButtonElement.addEventListener('click', highlightLinks)
```

- => And in highlightLinks, we now wanna find all the anchor elements in that section with highlight-links with that ID in the end, and then add that warning class to all the elements.

And one way of solving this problem, and by the way, I'm saying one way because in programming, you will always have multiple of achieving a certain result and solving a certain problem,

- => but one way of doing it is by using a for of loop.

1. And specifically, we can, first of all, get access to all the anchor elements and store them in a constant named anchorElements, for example,

by using document.querySelectorAll.

```js
// Highlight links

const highlightLinksButtonElement = document.querySelector('#highlight-links button')

function highlightLinks() {
  const anchorElements = document.querySelectorAll()
}

highlightLinksButtonElement.addEventListener('click', highlightLinks)
```

Now, we haven't used this method too much up 'til now, but I did mention it before. QuerySelectorAll works like querySelector,

but where querySelector selects the first matching element,

querySelectorAll will, as the name implies, return all matching elements.

2. So here, we still add a CSS query as a string parameter, but here, I'm now looking for anchor elements in this highlight-links section, so we'll actually copy that code from the first querySelector, but replace button with a to select all the anchor elements.

```js
// Highlight links

const highlightLinksButtonElement = document.querySelector('#highlight-links button')

function highlightLinks() {
  const anchorElements = document.querySelectorAll('#highlight-links a')
}

highlightLinksButtonElement.addEventListener('click', highlightLinks)
```

- => And since it selects all elements and not just one, querySelectorAll in the end returns an array. And since we have an array, we can use the for of loop as we learned to loop through all the elements in that array.

1. So for that, we can write this for of loop here.

And we learned that here we can create a helper constant, which will be recreated for every loop iteration, which will point at the individual array elements.

And here, I'll name that anchorElement because we'll have access to the single anchor elements through that constant here.

And then we need the of keyword and then we point at a certain array, which in my case is anchorElements, this array of elements.

```js
// Highlight links

const highlightLinksButtonElement = document.querySelector('#highlight-links button')

function highlightLinks() {
  const anchorElements = document.querySelectorAll('#highlight-links a')

  for (const anchorElement of anchorElements) {
  }
}

highlightLinksButtonElement.addEventListener('click', highlightLinks)
```

- => And now inside of the loop, we can do something with every array element, so with every anchorElement in this case.

1. And here, I then wanna use my anchorElement to access to class list object we learned about earlier and add the highlight class like this

> to make sure that the element is highlighted.

- => And that should be all we need here.

If we now save this, if I click this button, then the elements get highlighted because of course if I select this here, they do have this highlight class here.

And that's this example here implemented, that's this use case here implemented, in this case with help of a for of loop.
