---
recall: header
---

# 42. What Is Responsive Design?

*(42.1) responsive design is*...

* when we use html and css to make a web site or an application layout respond to different screen sizes  
 
and a few years ago making a web site or layout responsive was kind of a luxury  
 
I can actually remember asking clients if they wanted to pay extra to make their Web site responsive.  
 
But now it's really a necessity.  
 
It's not an add on or a luxury.  
 
And the reason for that is the huge increase of the use of smartphones and tablets and other devices.  
 
A lot of people now don't even have computers. They're fine with either a tablet or even their smartphone.  

*(42.2) some of the different ways to achieve responsive design*...

*(42.3) set the viewport/scale*...

* We've already set this in our pages and it's actually default with Emmett with our boiler plate generation in V.S. code  
 
`<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">`

*(42.4) use fluid widths as appose to fixed*...

* remember our containers we use max-width instead of just width allows the text to adapt to smaller screen sizes. 

*(42.5) Media queries - Different css stylings for different screen sizes*...

* Now the most significant part of Responsive Web Design and probably the most difficult are media queries  
 
* not setting them but learning how to use them and when to use them.

*(42.6) Rem units over px (also vh and vw units)*...

* Another good idea is to use REM units over pixels  
 
* it keeps sizes intact with the rest of the page because a rem unit is a multiplier of whatever the root HTML elements font size is

*(42.7) mobile first method*...

* This is where you first design the layout for mobile devices meaning small screens and then you add your media queries for the larger screen styles and you might even display less content on mobile devices.  
 
You know your most important content and then have more and larger devices when you have more real estate. And we're actually going to do a mobile first project later on all right. So in the next video I want to start to look at media queries in their syntax. Then we'll talk a little bit about relative units like RAM and M and finally will update our hotel project to be responsive.
