# 222. Working with Values & Basic JavaScript Commands

- => Now we learned that there are different values, `strings, and numbers`, for the moment, and, hence, `let's start with these values`.

- => `A string value` is always created in JavaScript code by using quotes, double quotes, opening and closing, or single quotes.

> So these are two individual single quotes. It's up to you, you can use either of the two, you just should be consistent.

> If you prefer double quotes, use them in all your JavaScript code, and don't switch between double and single quotes.

> Now, why do we need those quotes?

- => Those quotes, double or single, doesn't matter, act as delimiters to JavaScript and to the browser therefore,

> which is the thing executing our code in the end.

> They tell JavaScript where our text starts and where it ends.

1. Now, here, I will go with single quotes, since this is my personal preference, but it is up to you. And, here, we could now store some value, for example, 'Hi my name is Max!'

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      'Hi my name is Max!'
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

- => Very important, if you wanna use a single quote here in the text, and you're using single quotes for delimiting that text, or if you use double quotes and you wanna use a double quote in the text that won't be possible like this, you have to escape that character instead.

2. So if I wanna say, 'Hi, I'm Max!' that would be invalid.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      'Hi, I'm Max!'
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

> As you can tell, already, by the fact that my IDE is showing an error, and we have to escape this character.

3. So we have to tell JavaScript that it should not treat it as a closing quote by adding a backward slash in front of it.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      'Hi, I\'m Max!'
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

- => That's some special syntax, which is worth knowing when you work with strings, because that's how you can add the quote character inside of a string.

> Because the quotes around the text are actually not part of the text, but instead delimit the text, they tell JavaScript where your string starts and ends.

> But, with that, we now did create a first string,

- => and we can also `create a number`, maybe in a new line, we can add 32 as a number. And for numbers we don't have quotes around them, we just entered a number like this.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      'Hi, I\'m Max!'
      32
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

> Now you might be thinking, okay, what's the idea behind all of that? What does this code do?

> Well, that's the problem. This code doesn't do anything because we're not giving the browser any useful instructions.

> We are just creating two values here, but we're not doing anything with those values.

_Now, what could we do with those values? Well, for a start, we could output them. We could output them, such that we see them in some way on the loaded page._

- => And one way of outputting a value is to actually wrap that text here, maybe, with a so-called `alert function`.

> I'll come back to functions later, you can forget the term for now because, for the moment, it's enough if you just type along.

1. You can write alert, here, and then an opening bracket, opening parentheses, and after the text a closing bracket, a closing parentheses,

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      alert("Hi, I'm Max!")
      32
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

> and then this actually will send the instruction to the browser.

- => Alert is a built-in instruction, which the browser understands, which actually tells the browser to show a certain alert overlay on the screen, and to show this text inside of that overlay.

> If you now save this HTML file, and you open this with that Live Server extension, you should see Hi, I'm Max! on that screen.

> You should get this overlay, and you get this overlay because of JavaScript.

> This is our first, at least a bit, useful JavaScript instruction, and we're doing something with that text value, now, we are sending it as an alert to the browser.

_Now, as you can imagine, there are more things that we can do than just showing alerts._

> We can send behind the scenes requests to some server,

> we can set timers,

> we can, of course, also manipulate the HTML code that's visible on the page, if we had any,

> but we're going to dive into those features step-by-step. But, now, we at least have a first example of what we can do.

> But, with that, we're still not doing anything with that number. This 32 value still just sits there and does nothing.

2. Now, of course, we can all just show this (32 value) with an alert if we want to like that.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>JavaScript Introduction</title>
    <script>
      alert("Hi, I'm Max!")
      alert(32)
    </script>
  </head>
  <body> </body>
</html>
```

> Also, again, execute this alert command, here, and then wrap this between brackets, this number.

- => And that's important, alert works with both text and a number as you can see.

> If I save this and I reload, I get Hi, I'm Max!, and if I click OK, I get this 32 value, and if I click OK again, that's gone.

So now we're sending two alerts to the browser, and that's how we can work with values

and what we can generally do with JavaScript.

What we don't see here, though, are variables.
