# Styles

How can we add some style?

There are multiple ways of doing so.

> `With the style attribute (inLine CSS)`

We can write it directly in the style attribute.

First, we add the style attribute, but instead of using` ""`, we write `{}` after the = (this code will break, we need to add something in it):

```js
<h1 style={  }>Hello React</h1>
```

This is the way of injecting JS inside an attribute.

In the case of the style attribute, we need to send an object:

```js
<h1 style={{}}>Hello React</h1>
```

We can now add CSS properties to the object and their corresponding values as string:

```js
<h1 style={{color: 'coral', backgroundColor: 'floralwhite'}}>Hello React</h1>
```

Like in vanilla JS, we have to write properties in `camelCase`.

> `With a CSS file`

A more traditional way of adding style is by importing a CSS file and targeting elements with their tag or by adding a class to them.

In /src/, create a style.css file with the following content:

```css
.cute-paragraph {
  color: coral;
  background: floralwhite;
}
```

Add the class with className to the paragraph instead of the style attribute (remember that we can’t use the class keyword):

```js
import {createRoot} from 'react-dom/client'

const root = createRoot(document.querySelector('#root'))

root.render(
  <div>
    <h1 className='cute-paragraph'>Hello React</h1>

    <p>
      Some
      <br />
      content
    </p>

    <label htmlFor='name'>Name</label>
    <input id='name' type='checkbox' />
  </div>,
)
```

Import the style at the beginning of index.js:

```js
import './style.css'
import {createRoot} from 'react-dom/client'

const root = createRoot(document.querySelector('#root'))

root.render(
  <div>
    <h1 className='cute-paragraph'>Hello React</h1>

    <p>
      Some
      <br />
      content
    </p>

    <label htmlFor='name'>Name</label>
    <input id='name' type='checkbox' />
  </div>,
)
```

- By default, React applications started with react-scripts will support the import of CSS files.

> `Using a CSS framework`

You can also use CSS frameworks. Some of those integrate really well with React like Tailwind, but we are not going to cover that here, especially because we won’t need to write a lot of styling in the following lessons.

> `A bit of everything`

You can actually use all the techniques we mentioned earlier. You can use a CSS framework to do most of the heavy lifting, add a custom CSS file for specific tweaks and use the style attribute for injected values.

It’s up to you and it depends on what fits best in the project.
