# 254. The Global "window" & "document" Objects

```
So now, with our starting setup out of the way, let's dive right in and let's explore this DOM thing, and what it is and how it helps us when it comes to using JavaScript to build interactive websites and to manipulate what we see on the screen.
```

And for that,

- => let me first of all introduce two global variables, which are always available in our code, which we can always use.

> Built in variables, which are provided by the browser to us in our JavaScript code.

- => And dat would be the window and the document variables and objects that are actually stored in that variables.

> These are built in variables, which then in turn, contain built in functions,

- => and we got this global window object, (and we will see how we can use it in just a second,) which is a globally available variable that contains an object, which then in turn holds a lot of utility information and functionality related to the active browser window

> and browser window here also means browser tab.

> So if you are running code on your website, you can use the window object to access information about the browser tab that opened your website,

> not about other tabs for security reasons, because otherwise your website could extract information from other websites loaded in different tabs, but you can access information about your browser tab.

- => And now to see this in action, in our code we can access this window object like this, `window`

> this window variable is globally available, even though we never defined it.

1. We can also console log window to look inside of it, to look into it.

```js
console.log(window)
```

> If I saved dat, console log window, then here in your developer tools in the browser, you see this window object being logged here.

- => And the great thing is dat when you console log an object in that console here in the DevTools, you can dive into that object and have a look at all the properties and methods that might exist in this object.

> Simply by clicking on this small arrow here.

1. Now you'll see, we got lots of properties and methods here.

2. Methods are marked by this F here, by this function symbol, because methods are just functions built into an object

3. and properties are all the properties without dat F symbol.

> And you'll see, we've got lots of properties and functions here, and you should not be intimidated by this, with most of them you will never work. So you don't need to learn it by heart.

> And you can always console log it and dive into that anyways, if you want to.

- => But one thing we can see in there, for example, if I scroll to the very top is this alert function here, this alert method, and that might sound familiar.

> We did use this alert function here before in the course.

- => Now, the interesting thing about this window object is that you can access it by its name, (like I'm doing it here when I'm logging it.) but that everything that's built into this window object is actually also made available by the browser as global variables or functions.

- => So all the methods and all the properties you find in here can also be accessed without window dot.

> That's a special exception made by the browser for this very important window object.

> That's why we can execute alert like this, but we could also do window dot alert. Dat would also work and it would invoke the same function.

> So these are equivalents, these two lines of code.

- => Now, why am I mentioning this? Because this window object gives us a lot of utility information and methods that we can use to achieve a lot of things.

1. For example, we can find out on which page we currently are,

2. we can access utility functions like alert,

> and we'll see a couple of these features in action throughout the course. Of course we did already see alert.

- => but there also is one very specific property on this window object, which is even more useful to us and which is super important and which we will use a lot in web development. And that's the document object.

> So the document property on the window object, which holds yet another object, a so-called nested object, because it's an object inside of another object.

- => And this document object holds information and functionality related to the loaded website content.

> So not to the tab as a whole, but instead to the actual content that was brought onto the screen.

> So to our HTML code that was parsed by the browser and that leads to something being displayed on the screen.

> To dis parsed HTML content to dis content, we get access with this document object.

- => And dis for example, will give us a lot of functionalities that allow us to reach out to certain HTML elements,

1. add event listeners to certain elements, for example,

2. to react on a click on a certain element by the user.

3. And it will also allow us to manipulate the HTML code and change what's displayed on the screen without fetching a new HTML page.

> Now we're going to have a look at this document object and what we can do with it in this section, but

- => this document object is related to this DOM concept, which is also extremely important when working with JavaScript.
