---
recall: header
---

# 68. nth-child Pseudo Selectors  
Practice:  
------------------------------------  
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      li {
         padding: 0.25rem;
         margin: 0.25rem;
         list-style: none;
      }
   </style>
</head>
<body>
  <ul>
     <li>Item 1</li>
     <li>Item 2</li>
     <li>Item 3</li>
     <li>Item 4</li>
     <li>Item 5</li>
     <li>Item 6</li>
     <li>Item 7</li>
     <li>Item 8</li>
     <li>Item 9</li>
     <li>Item 10</li>
     <li>Item 11</li>
     <li>Item 12</li>
     <li>Item 13</li>
     <li>Item 14</li>
     <li>Item 15</li>
     <li>Item 16</li>
     <li>Item 17</li>
     <li>Item 18</li>
     <li>Item 19</li>
     <li>Item 20</li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>
```
------------------------------------

*(68.1) first child Pseudo Selectors*...

Now we've seen first child and last child.  
 
So I'm just going to refresh your memory if you forget what these do basically we can select the first and last element  
 
and it doesn't have to be a list I do I'm just using list items that could be divs it could be whatever any element at all.  
 
But we're going to say ally and then the pseudo selector syntax is a colon.  
 
So we want to say first child and let's say background. Let's just do background red. Just use color names here...

```
/* first-child */
li:first-child {
background: red !important;  
```  
 
* So that selects the first one

*(68.2) last-child Pseudo Selectors*...

and if we want the last one copy that and we'll just do last child and save...

```
/* last-child */
li:last-child {
background: blue;
}  
```  
 
* Now the last one is red.

*(68.3) nth-child Pseudo Selector*...

But what about all of these.  
 
You know what if we want to choose the fourth one  
or every every second one  
every even one  
every odd one  
 
* for that we can use nth-child and nth is basically like kind of like a placeholder.  
* nth-child selector matches every element that is the nth child, regardless of type,  of its parent.

*(68.4) Position 3 ( li:nth-child(3))*...

So let's get let's say position three. So to do that we can say list item and we're gonna say n dash child and we're just going to pass in three. Okay.  
 
And then I'm going to say background and let's do a different color we'll do purple and save...

```
/* Position 3 */
li:nth-child(3) {
background: purple;
}  
```  
 
* And notice that the third one down is is purple. OK.


*(68.5) Every 3rd (li:nth-child(3n + 0))*...

So what if we wanted to do every three K not just the third one but every third one.  
 
We want to do so in that case it's a every three.  
 
So we could say nth child and we can say three and plus zero. This is basically the formula that that we're gonna use here  
 
and let's say background and we'll do orange I save that...

```
li:nth-child(3n + 0) {
background: orange;
}  
```  
 
* notice that every third one is orange  
 
and it replace the the this one here position three because it's further down.  
 
So it just kind of overrode.  
 
If I put important here and save then that's going to overwrite that.

*(68.6) Now this formula that we passed in here is the counter*...

So this is the counter and then zero this is the offset K because we can offset.  
 
* We can start it wherever we want in this case were starting at zero  
 
* and as a shortcut we can just do 3n  
 
So I save that we're going to get the same result.

*(68.7) Every 3rd after 7 (li:nth-child(3n + 7))*...

Now let's say that I want to do every three but I wanted to start after the seventh item here.  
 
So let's put a comment in here we'll say every 3 after 7. So to do that we can put an end to child and then pass in 3 N and we want to do plus 7 which is our offset. Okay.   
 
And then I'll do background yellow and we'll save that...

``` 
/* Every 3rd after 7 */
li:nth-child(3n + 7) {
background: yellow;
}  
```  
 
* And notice that the yellow starts here. Okay. So this 7 this is the offset.  
 
* We're basically gonna just we're not going to start it until we hit that seventh item and then we're going to do every three.


*(68.8) every odd*...

Now a more common thing you're probably going to do is even an odd.  
 
So let's say every odd so we could do ally and child and we could pass in odd and let's do background. We'll do a light gray and save...

```
/* odd */
li:nth-child(odd) {
background: #ccc;
}  
```  
 
* And now every odd item here is going to be light gray.

*(68.9) every even*...

Now it's probably probably it's probably pretty obvious that we can do even as well so let's do that.  
 
Let's do even and we'll change this to let's do a shade darker shade lighter actually and save...

```
/* even */
li:nth-child(even) {
background: #ddd;
}  
```  
 
* And now every even is the. Like this. This DDD light gray.   
 
All right.  
 
* So any child can be pretty handy. I remember before and the child was actually a thing we had to use javascript to dynamically select every other element there was it was just a pain in the neck guys  
 
if you're learning each team Allen CSX now you've missed a lot of just giant pains in the asses because things weren't I mean you know these selectors weren't around even like border radius wasn't around to do things like even place holders in our forms and our input forms we didn't have the place holder attribute before each team all five.  
 
So we would have to use javascript to put to have a value in but then had a click event. So when we clicked in the value went away which was just a giant pain in the neck.  
 
So you guys are lucky those of you that are learning this now that you don't have to go through that stuff and then browser compatibility is a whole new issue. All right.  
 
So that's that's the basis of. And the child in the next video we're going to look at the before and after pseudo selector and look at some practical uses for the. For that.
-->