---
recall: header
---

# 45. Vh & Vw Units  
Practice: So we're going to create a tiny little project kind of a landing page...
--------------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      * {
         box-sizing: border-box;
         margin: 0;
         padding: 0;
      }

      body {
         font-family: 'Segoe UI', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
      }

      header {
         background: #333;
         color: #fff;
      }
   </style>
</head>

<body>
   <header>
      <h1>Welcome To Our Website</h1>
      <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipisicing elit. Hic facilis rem voluptas nobis nemo architecto?</p>
      <a href="#" class="bth">Find Out More</a>
   </header>
</body>

</html>
-------------------------------------------

*(45.1) using vh units*...

by default the background color is going to wrap the content.  
 
If we add more paragraphs and stuff it's going to just go down along with the content.  
 
What I want is the header background to take up the entire screen  
 
* and you might think well let's set the height to 100 percent of its container which is the body...

```
header {
background: #333;
color: #fff;
height: 100%;
}  
```  
 
* So let's save that. OK I saved it and there's no difference.  

And this is kind of kind of a gotcha.  
 
* So setting into 100 percent of the body is literally just doing what what it's already doing. It's just coming down to here we want it to cover everything.

*This is where viewport heights come in.*...  
 
So I'm going to go ahead and change this from 100 percent to 100 VH and save...

```
header {
background: #333;
color: #fff;
height: 100vh;
}  
```  
 
* And now you can see it can. It covers everything.  
 
* regardless of how big or small the browser is you know it can make it bigger or smaller.  
 
It doesn't matter it's taking up 100 viewport heights.  
 
Now if I change this to 50 viewport heights and save it...

```
header {
background: #333;
color: #fff;
height: 50vh;
}  
```  
 
* takes up exactly half because remember there's 100 slices right.  
 
This is taking up 50 of those 100 slices.  
 
If I change this to 20 it's going to take up 20 of those 100 slices.  
 
* So this makes creating landing pages very easily. You know it's very popular now to have a like a whole big image with some text and a button. That's a very popular look and VH allows us to do that very easily.

*(45.2) So let's make this an actual image.*...

I'm gonna grab a remote image from source dot on Splash dot com 

and if you go down here let's see. So random from a collection.

*let's grab the daily photo.*...  
 
So this right here. This will give us a random daily photo I'm going to grab that and I'm going to add this to the background

*(45.3) you can have a background color and then put a U.R.L. after it*...

I don't know if I've showed you this before but you can have a background color and then put a U.R.L. after it. So basically of the color and then you have the image on top of it. So let's put in here that link. Let's save it and go back...

```
header {
background: #333 url('https://source.unsplash.com/daily');
color: #fff;
height: 100vh;
}  
```  
 
And now you'll see we have a background image yours will probably be different. Close that up yours will probably be different because it's a daily photo and they change it daily.

*(45.4) add some other properties to this background*...

Now notice that it's repeating  
 
and I don't think I've had the chance to even show you this.  
 
Let's see the repeat since our window is bigger than the actual image.  
 
Then it repeats.  
 
*So we're going to add some other properties to this background.*...  
 
So one is gonna be...

*no repeat.*  
 
Save that. And now you can see it doesn't repeat OK.

Another thing I want to do is I want it to cover.  
 
I want to center it and I want it to cover the whole page the whole background.  
 
So in addition to no repeat. Let's do...

*center center/cover*

on the x and y access and then slash cover...

```
header {
background: #333 url('https://source.unsplash.com/daily') no-repeat center center/cover;
color: #fff;
height: 100vh;
}  
```  
 
* and save. And now it covers the entire thing.  
 
If I stretch this so it's it's still it's always going to cover. So that's gonna be your most popular your most popular way to do this or the most common way to do this.   
 
Now let's work on actually centering the text. Now this is where flex blocks actually works really well but we haven't gotten to that yet so we're just going to use patterns and stuff like that. So for the header first of all I want to text align everything and I could stop here I mean I showed you guys what the h and why I didn't show you VW yet but yeah actually let's do that first so

*(45.5) using vw units*...  
 
let's add in a width of let's say 50 V W and save...

```
header {
background: #333 url('https://source.unsplash.com/daily') no-repeat center center/cover;
color: #fff;
height: 100vh;
width: 50vw;
}  
```  
 
* And now you'll see it's only going to take up half. Okay.  
 
* So it's the exact same thing only it goes horizontal instead of vertical  
 
but I personally don't use VW that much because as you can see it goes all the way across any anyway the height is a different story it doesn't. It's not going to go all the way down on its own but yeah that's VW.

*(45.6) let's work on actually centering the text*...

So let's go ahead and text aligned to the center. So we'll save that.  
 
Now everything is aligned to the center.  
 
Make this a little bigger and let's see now what I want to do is add some padding within the header. Let's do two Ram. So now there's two Ram padding all around.  
 
But I want to push this down more and there's better ways to do this with Flex blocks. We could we could align it directly in the middle but we haven't gotten to that yet. So I'm just going to add padding top let's do padding top. Let's try. Two hundred. Now will we use Ram units. Let's do five ram. No. We want more than that. Let's do 10 that's still still not low enough let's do 15. All right. And if I were to make this smaller...

```
header {
background: #333 url('https://source.unsplash.com/daily') no-repeat center center/cover;
color: #fff;
height: 100vh;
width: 50vw;
padding: 2rem;
padding-top: 15rem;
}
```

*(45.7) We're going to target some of these other elements*...
 
let's make this look somewhat decent. We're going to target some of these other elements like the H one the paragraph the button and style. Those a little bit. So it's a header. Actually we want header H1 and we're going to change the font size to three ram.  
 
So that's going to be six sixteen is the default route. Font size it's gonna be sixteen times three and four the paragraph say header paragraph. Let's do margin and let's do one Ram. Top and bottom zero left and right.  
 
That way it pushes the link down and pushes the header up. And then for the button or that I should say the link with the class of B10 n where we'll just make that look decent. And I know that this doesn't have anything to do with VH and VW but I want to reiterate things we've already gone over. So we want this button to be inline block because by default links are inline and then we're gonna add text decoration none.  
 
Let's do a background of light grey. Change the color to dark grey and do the padding we'll use Ram we'll do zero point seventy five on the top and bottom. And to ram on the left and right. And save. And there's our button. OK. So it looks a little better.  
 
And e I mean the text might blend and not blend well with the background image but later on I'm going to show you how we can use CSX overlays we can have like a dark overlay over the image so that the text is more readable...

*(45.8) the viewport heights it's it's always gonna be a hundred even if we have content below it.*
 
So let's go below the header and  
 
*let's add a section*  
 
and we'll put an H three we'll just say like about our company and then we'll put a paragraph let's do Lorem 50 and then I'm just going to add for that section I'm just gonna add padding of to ram just so it's not right up against the edge OK. So notice that it's still it's still gonna take up 100 viewport height and then immediately when I scroll down we're gonna see that content and it doesn't matter how how tall or short the browser is. So right now you might think that as we scroll we'll see more of the image.  
 
But no.  
 
*As we scroll it's going to go right to that content.*  

* So viewport Heights is great for landing pages like this where you have this large image because it doesn't matter where. How how tall or short your browser is.  
 
* As soon as you scroll down you're going to see the content.  
 
It only takes up one 100 viewport heights of whatever the current browser size is.  
 
Now let's see if we make this smaller like that still looks good. So this is actually pretty responsive. Let's see.

*(45.9) Let's actually check it out with with the chrome tools device toolbar.*...  
 
So we're going to hit that case. So that looks pretty good we'll look on it on an iPad. Good. Now let's try an iPhone landscape. So we need to make this a little bigger

*and we'll click the landscape.*...  
 
So in this case I would probably want this too.  
 
* Yeah that doesn't look very good.  
 
So I'd want this to be moved up.

*(45.10) So let's let's practice our media query*...  
 
and we don't have to do much we always  
 
*we just need to change the padding of the header.*...  
 
So let's say media and I would say max height. So max height let's do 450 pixels. What this means is that when the the viewport is four hundred and fifty pixels or less then this styling will kick in. So we'll see a header and see we initially set the padding top to what I think it was 15 Ram. So let's let's try five REM and save...

```
@media(max-height: 450px) {
header {
padding-top: 5rem;
}
}  
``` 
 
And then we go so now it looks good on landscape and if we go back you can see it goes back to 15 REM.  
 
* So it's a good example of where and when to use a media query.  
 

