---
recall: header
---

# 12. Lists & Tables

## Practice: on a new boilerplate

**unordered lists**

> unordered lists are not numbered

> and basically they have bullet points

> which of course you can remove with CSS

> You can you can have different types of bullet points

_The `<ul>`tag defines an unordered (bulleted) list._

_Use the `<ul>` tag together with the `<li>` tag to create unordered lists._

> So we want to put a `<ul></ul>` tag

> and then each item in the list should be wrapped in a list item, an `<li></li>` tag

1. Create an unordered list with 4 items named Item 1 to Item 4...

```html
<ul>
  <li>Item 1</li>
  <li>Item 2</li>
  <li>Item 3</li>
  <li>Item 4</li>
</ul>
```

_We can also have different types of bullets_

> This isn't something that I would recommend but you can use a `in line style tag` to change the attributes`

> and there is something called a `list-style` attribute

> And we have `circle`, `square`, `disk` (That's the default) and `none`

1. Let's see let's change it to a _square_...

```html
<!-- Unordered lists -->
<ul style="list-style: square">
  <li>Item 1</li>
  <li>Item 2</li>
  <li>Item 3</li>
  <li>Item 4</li>
</ul>
```

> Now you can see that each bullet is a square

> this is something that I would not recommend doing you want to put all your styling in your CSS style sheet. But I just wanted to give you an example of this.

_Ordered Lists_

> The `<ol>` tag defines an ordered list. An ordered list `can be numerical or alphabetical`.

> The `<li>` tag is used to define each list item.

1. create one with 4 items...

```html
<!-- Ordered Lists -->
<ol>
  <li>Item 1</li>
  <li>Item 2</li>
  <li>Item 3</li>
  <li>Item 4</li>
</ol>
```

> And now notice that instead of bullets we actually have numbers.

_We can use the type attribute the numbers or letters_

> type attribute of `number is the default`

`<ol type="1">`

1. we can change it to uppercase letters...

`<ol type="A">`

2. lowercase letters...

`<ol type="a">`

3. uppercase Roman numerals...

`<ol type="I">`

4. lowercase Roman numerals...

`<ol type="i">`

> ordered list is something that I almost never use

> unordered list is something you're going to use all the time because they're used for navigation menus whether it's a horizontal navigate nav bar or if it's a side menu or anything like that

_Nested lists_

> let's say we want to have a list within the list

1. nest a ul with 2 items inside a ul with 4 items...

```html
<ul>
  <li>Item 1</li>
  <li
    >Item 2
    <ul>
      <li>Nested Item 1</li>
      <li>Nested Item 2</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Item 3</li>
  <li>Item 4</li>
</ul>
```

> And now you can see that these two items are nested in the act. It automatically changes the the bullet point here to a circle. Changes it from a disk to a circle.

_So lists are pretty simple styling them as is a whole new level._

> When you start to get into creating navigation bars and stuff like that but we'll get into that later on when we start to deal with CSX. All right.

**tables**
Practice: on a new boilerplate

> The `<table>` tag defines an HTML table.

> An HTML table consists of one `<table>` element and one or more `<tr>`, `<th>`, and `<td>` elements.

> The `<tr>` element defines a `table row`,

> the `<th>` element defines a `table header`,

> and the `<td>` element defines a `table cell`.

> An HTML table may also include `<caption>`, `<colgroup>`, `<thead>`, `<tfoot>`, and `<tbody>` elements.

_So tables are used for tabular data_

> `You only want to use tables for tabular data`.

1. So to create a table we want to put a...

`<table></table>` tag

> (and in a table we have a `head`, a `body` and we can also have a `footer` If we want.)

2. for the head we're gonna say...

`<thead></thead>` table head

3. and inside we want a...

`<tr></tr>` table row

4. inside the table row we want some column (headings) but when it's with a heading you want to use...

`<th></th>` for table head

> first name  
> last name  
> email

> Now if I save this you'll see that these are our headings

> so these are the headings and then we want the data underneath

5. so the data is going to go in the body...

`<tbody></tbody>`

6. which you also have table rows...

`<tr></tr>`

7. But instead of T.H. We want to use...

`<td></td>` table data

8. compete a table with 3 names, last names, and emails. (if we want to we could change the width)...

```html
<!-- Tables -->
<table style="width: 600px">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>First Name</th>
      <th>Last Name</th>
      <th>Email</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>John</td>
      <td>Doe</td>
      <td>jdoe@gmail.com</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Kate</td>
      <td>Smith</td>
      <td>kate@gmail.com</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Jeff</td>
      <td>Wilson</td>
      <td>jeff@gmail.com</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
```
