# 20. CSS Architecture, Components and BEM

> 1. CSS architecture: how we should think about layouts, and how we should mark up our code in a professional way.

- remember that we want code that is clean, modular, reusable, that makes it easy to add more and more features to our webpage or app if it needs to grow.

- So because of all of these reasons, we cannot just dive into a new project and leave architecture behind just as a second thought.

- we need to take important decisions concerning our HTML and CSS code right from the beginning of the project.

> 2. the think, build, architect mindset.

- We need to `think` about the layout of our webpage or web app before we actually write the code.

- After having the layout figured out, we should `build` it in HTML and CSS with a consistent structure for naming our classes.

- Also, at the same time, we should create a logical CSS `architecture` by using multiple files and folders.

> 3. think: component-driven design

- This is actually a principle that is used across all software development.

- In CSS, with component-driven design, we try to divide our page into modular components.

- Components are the building blocks that we use to construct our interfaces. So we can basically think of our interface as `a collection of components held together` by the overall layout of the page.

- Probably the most important thing about components is that they `should be reusable` across a project and also between different projects.

- So you can `build a library of your components` and then reuse them across projects, which will speed up your development.

- Plus, components `should be independent` so that we can use them completely on their own no matter where on the page. What this means is that components `should not depend on their parent elements.`

- all of this will make your CSS code easier to maintain and to scale if necessary.

- Now of course, these are all the general rules, and they can be broken if it's strictly necessary as long as you have a good reason.

- this whole thinking component strategy is actually `a bit similar to Brad Frost's super popular atomic design philosophy`, which maybe you have heard of by now.

- Now we're not gonna focus so much on atomic design, I just wanted to let you know that there are other ways of thinking about our interfaces.

so after thinking about your design, we need to code the design using HTML and CSS,

> 4. build: using BEM as a consistent strategy and structure for naming our classes

- BEM It's a nice clean system for marking up our layouts, BEM stands for Block Element Modifier.

- And this is how class notes usually look like using the BEM methodology.

```css
.block {
}

.block__element {
}

.block__element--modifier {
}
```

- in BEM a `block` is a standalone component that is meaningful on its own. And what this means is that `the component as we defined in the last slide are the blocks in BEM`.

a recipe card is a block and also the button because both of them are standalone components that can be reused anywhere in the project.

these two blocks are actually nested. So the button block is inside the recipe block, and that's perfectly normal and acceptable.

- an `element` is a part of a block and has no meaning on its own.

So in our example, that could be the info panel or the stats box, but there are a lot of other elements there.

But again, if we take one of these elements out of the block then they wouldn't be useful at all. They wouldn't have any meaning.

- Now what's important to note here is how the recipe block still appears in all the class names within the block.

Also, notice how `this creates selectors with really low specificities` because we always use classes and they are never nested.

And so they always have a pretty low specificity, and this is one of the big reasons why BEM is so widely used for easy to maintain and reusable code.

- the `modifier` is a flag that we can put on a block or an element in order to make it different from the regular blocks or elements. `To make a different version`, let's say.

In our example, we have a modifier to make the button round. So for instance, there may be some rules for all buttons, and then we use a modifier to make a more specific, different button. And in this case, a round one.

- just by reading the markup with these class names in it, you can instantly see how all elements are related and what each of them does.

> 5. architect: create a logical folder and file structure for our CSS to live in.

- the 7-1 Pattern introduced by Hugo Giraudel.

the 7-1 Pattern is extremely simple. All it means is that we have seven different folders where we put partial Sass files, and then one main Sass file in which we import all of our partial files into one final compiled CSS stylesheet.

Of course, when I say Sass here, I could mean any other CSS pre-processor because all of them allow to implement this pattern

- the seven folders that are used in this method are:

`base` folder where we put the basic product definitions

`components` folder where we have one file for each component

`layout` folder where we define the overall layout of the project

`pages` folder where we have styles for specific pages of the project,

`themes` folder if you want to implement different visual themes,

`abstracts` folder where we put code that doesn't output any CSS, such as variables or mix-ins

`vendors` folder where all third party CSS goes

I'll go into further details about these folders once we really implement them in a project.

we don't always need to use all of these folders. It's gonna depend on the size and the scope of the project.
