---
recall: header
---

# 69. before & after Pseudo Selectors  
Practice:
-----------------------------------------
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
   
   </style>
</head>
<body>
   <label class="is-required" for="name">Name</label>
   <input type="text">
</body>
</html>
```
-----------------------------------------
   
*(69.1) the before and after pseudo selector*...

* All right guys in this video we're gonna take a look at the before and after pseudo selector which actually allows us to insert content before or after an element.  
 
and I'm gonna give you some practical examples.  
 
* So one example would be where we have a form and there's some fields that are required  
 
* and you may have seen this before but they'll be like some kind of mark like an asterisk or something where the fields are actually required.  
 
So what I'm gonna do is just put in a label and we'll just say for name and I'm going to give this a class of is Dash required. OK.  
 
And then here I'll just say name and then after the label we'll put an input type text that sets that we don't need anything else.  
 
So let's say this and open it...

```
<body>
<label class="is-required" for="name">Name</label> 
<input type="text" />
</body>
```

*(69.2) put an asterisk after the label*...
 
so a good example of a practical use for this would be to put an asterisk after the label like right here and we could even style it we could color it read for instance.  
 
* So let's take our is required class.  
* So we'll say what we want what is required.  
 
And so I want to do is .required and then we want to do colon after I wanted to be after.  
 
And then in here it takes in a property called content: which I'm going to make an asterisk. So we're just going to put an asterisk in here and let's just save that...

```
.is-required:after {
content: '*';
}  
```  
 
and see what happens.  
 
* So I noticed that the asterisk actually gets put in here and in it's it's not in the markup  
 
if we open up our our Deb tools here and we go to the elements tab  
 
and we take a look at the label see we want to look at the html also going to just bring this down if you look at the label we have a label and then input There's no asterisk in the markup at all.  
 
It's being inserted into the brought into the view here in the browser through CSS  
 
* and then we can also style  
 
it we should have a semicolon here but we can style it we could say like color red and I saved that it's now red 
* we might want to push it over a little  
 
so we can add some padding dash left we'll say like two pixels and save...

```
.is-required:after {
content: '*';
color: red;
padding-left: 2px;
}  
```  
 
and it pushes it over  
 
so that I think that's a pretty practical use because then you can go ahead and just give any, Like let's say we had you know six seven fields whatever ones were required you could simply give a class of is required and it would have would automatically have this asterisk.  
 
* You don't have to worry about going into your markup and actually adding an asterisk in your each team.  
 
* OK. So that's one practical use.

*(69.3) put an asterisk before the label*...
 
* And just to show you if I did before and save it  
 
* does the same thing it just puts it before...

```
.is-required:before {
content: '*';
color: red;
padding-left: 2px;
}  
```  

*(69.4) in an image overlay*...

Now another really practical use for before is to do an overlay in an image overlay.  
 
Now we did an overlay in the edge ledger project but we didn't use before we just kind of did it on that element.  
 
But I'm going to I'm going to give you an example of how we would do this.  
 
I'm going to comment this so we don't want this element.  

We're gonna do kind of a little landing page here so let's put a header and in the header we'll do an H1 will say hello world to a paragraph I'll do Lorem 10 and then under that header let's do a section and we'll put an H three I'll just say Lorem three and then we'll do a paragraph and let's do Lorem 30. Okay  
 
so we'll save that.  
 
And I'm actually going to bring this back down to 100 percent I did have this zoomed in. It's going to bring that back down  
 
and then let's add some some core styles so I'm going to add some styles to the body just I wanted to look somewhat decent and realistic.  
 
So it's a font family well to use aerial for our font and let's give it a background. We're given the body of background of dark  
 
and a color of white all right.  
 
And then for the header itself scoring here will see a header. I'm gonna display as flex as soon as I do that it's gonna it's gonna go horizontal. But we want the Flex direction to be a column  
 
I save that it goes back to that direction and we want to justify content center. I just want to move everything to the center. So this is stuff we've already done.  
 
We're just setting it up. So we want to align items to the center and we want to text align to the center as well.  
 
And then let's let's add a height of one hundred viewport height so we'll save that. Good.  
 
The font size of the H1 I just want to increase. So I going to see a header each one. Now we could use if you want you can use greater then it doesn't really make a difference but sometimes you'll see that they'll see that people like to do that. Which means that it's a direct child of header. So let's say font size for RAM and let's say margin 1 RAM  
 
and I'm just gonna mark zero at the margin on the body as well  
 
* so I'm going to take an image and first of all I'm going to add it to just just the header itself and I'm going to show you with the problem with that is.  
 
So let's get an image from source dot on Splash dot com and if you go down see. From a collection. Let's do this random search term for grab this. This nature water random search term and let's put a background of your URL.  
 
Put that in there and say no repeat because we don't want it to repeat.  
 
We want to center on the x and y axis and then we want it to cover the hole we want to show the whole image. So I save that  
 
we get a picture of some water here. Now I want the I. This is actually nice because we can read the text fine but a lot of times with with some images you won't be able to read the text.  
 
These all seem to be pretty good. All right so let's use this one.  
 
* So let's say that we want this image to be transparent we want to add opacity value and we could see like zero point four and save...

```
header {
display: flex;
flex-direction: column;
justify-content: center;
align-items: center;
text-align: center;
height: 100vh;

background: url('https://source.unsplash.com/1600x900/?nature,water') no-repeat center center/cover;
opacity: 0.4;
}  
```  
 
* you can see that now we can see through the image and it makes it darker but the text is also translucent and we can also see through that.  
 
* And it's also not readable still.  
 
* So we want the text to be nice and clear but only the background image to be faded or to be translucent loosing.

*So what we need to do here what we could do as a solution is use before.*...
 
* So we're gonna say header:before and we're gonna take this right here. The background image and the opacity value and pass it in there...

```
header:before {
background: url('https://source.unsplash.com/1600x900/?nature,water') no-repeat center center/cover;
opacity: 0.5;
}  
```  
 
* Now when you use before and after you want to use content  
 
now we're not actually inserting content in the page so we're just going to leave this blank like that right. Now if I save...

```
header:before {
content: '';
background: url('https://source.unsplash.com/1600x900/?nature,water') no-repeat center center/cover;
opacity: 0.5;
}  
```  
 
* that we can't see the image because we basically need to position it  
 
so that it's it's it's basically on top of it or actually behind it.  
  
So we want to position this let's say position absolute we want to start at the top corner so top 0 left 0. OK.  
 
So basically right here we want it to go 100 percent across 100 percent height because we wanted to cover the whole  thing  
 
so let's say with 100 percent in height also 100 percent.  
 
So if we go ahead and save that you can see that the we're still having the same issue.  
 
I mean the image is dark but the text is not.  
 
So we're gonna actually give it a z index and we're gonna push it behind. So we're gonna say negative 1 and let's save...

```
header:before {
content: '';
background: url('https://source.unsplash.com/1600x900/?nature,water')
no-repeat center center/cover;
opacity: 0.4;
position: absolute;
top: 0;
left: 0;
width: 100%;
height: 100%;
z-index: -1;
}  
```  
 
* And now look at the text it's nice and bright. Yet the image is still darkened.  
 
OK so if we wanted to change the the amount of opacity we could make it darker the even darker than this like zero point two zero is gonna be completely just dark. OK.  
 
And then one is gonna be just the full image.  
 
Anything in between we can do like zero point five.  
 
It's kind of hard because the image keeps changing. You'd probably be a better example if it was a static image I probably should have did that but either way you can see how this works

*so we're adding the background image on the Before pseudo selector adding some opacity positioning and absolute starting it at the top left making sure it covers the whole area and then we're sending it back with the index of negative one.*  
 
*That will bring the text forward.*  
 
OK. So just remember that when you when you're doing a showcase image you can do it that way. All right. So that's a pretty practical use of this and you'll see this a lot. So in the next video we're gonna start to take a look at box shadows.
