# 384. Rest Parameters & The Spread Operator

- => Now, let's stick to functions for the moment. And let's add another function here in this functions JS file. This is a function which I'll name someUp.

1. And the idea is that this function takes a list of numbers and adds them all together.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp() {}
```

2. Now, for this, of course, we could accept multiple numbers as parameters like nun one nun two and numb three.

And then we could return nun one plus numb two plus numb three.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(num1, num2, num3) {
  return num1 + num2 + num3
}
```

- => This would work, but this function has one important limitation. It only accepts three numbers. And actually it wants exactly three numbers.

We can't call this function with two numbers only if I would do that.

1. And I then console lock the result of doing that. If I call this function with just the numbers one and two, instead of three numbers,

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(num1, num2, num3) {
  return num1 + num2 + num3
}

console.log(sumUp(1, 2)) //NaN
```

then you will see that if we execute this file, we get this N a N value down there.

2. N a N is a special value in Java script. Just like undefined is a special value, which is built into JavaScript and stands for not a number.

3. And we get that because I'm only passing in two values here when three values are expected.

Now, what did you learn about parameters that don't receive a value? They have undefined as a default value.

- => So when we then add all those numbers together, the third number here actually will have no special value. Instead it will be undefined.

- => And if you add undefined, there's special value that's known by JavaScript to some numbers, JavaScript can't do this in a mathematical way because undefined is not a number.

1. And hence you get this not a number result because JavaScript is not able to derive a number.

- => Now we could solve this with some default value, like zero, in which case we could execute this code.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(num1, num2, num3 = 0) {
  return num1 + num2 + num3
}

console.log(sumUp(1, 2)) //3
```

And we now get three as a result here because now nun three will be zero if it's not set,

- => but still this function is not really flexible because it needs at least two arguments to parameter values to work correctly and at most three.

- => Now, what if your goal would be to make that function work with any amount of numbers. now for that, we could rewrite it and not accept a couple of separate parameter values, but instead we could accept an array of numbers.

1. So that'd be call sumUp with an array as a value here, created with the square brackets, where we can have as many numbers as we want.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(numbers) {
  return num1 + num2 + num3
}

console.log(sumUp([1, 5, 10, 11]))
```

2. And then we could rewrite the logic here in this function to create a helper variable result,

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(numbers) {
  let result = 0
}

console.log(sumUp([1, 5, 10, 11]))
```

3. and then loop through all the numbers here. As we learned it with four of and simply add the numbers to result may be here with this shortcut operator,

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }
}

console.log(sumUp([1, 5, 10, 11]))
```

which is just a short forms for saying result plus number like this.

4. And then we returned result in the end here.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

console.log(sumUp([1, 5, 10, 11]))
```

We could write it like this.

And if we do that and we then execute this file, I get to 27 as a result here, which is the correct result.

And that would be a fine way of writing such a function.

- => But JavaScript also gives you another way of writing functions that take a multiple values instead of just one or two values that you can use in situations where you don't have an array to pass to this function and where you don't want to create one, just to be able to call this function correctly,

which might sound a bit abstract, but the more complex your JavaScript programs get, the more kind of cases you'll encounter in those programs.

- => And it's not unrealistic that you might have some place in a program where you want to call a function with a couple of parameters, and you don't want to wrap those parameters into an array First just to be able to call that function.

1. Instead, you might want to prefer to be able to call this function like this with just a list of numbers,

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

console.log(sumUp(1, 5, 10, 11))
```

a list of parameter values, instead of one parameter value, that's an array.

2. And you want to be able to call this function with four values or five values or even six values.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

console.log(sumUp(1, 5, 10, 11, 20, 31))
```

You want that flexibility

- => and JavaScript gives you that flexibility with another feature that's called `rest` parameters or rest arguments

1. in your function definition Here, you can add three dots in front of your parameter name.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(...numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

console.log(sumUp(1, 5, 10, 11, 20, 31))
```

2. That is a special operator built into JavaScript, which might look a bit weird and which we actually will see again later in a different context. But

- => if you use it here in the parameter list of a function definition, then this operator says that this function accepts any amount of parameters.

1. One parameter 2, 3, 5, there is no fixed limit.

- => And that all those parameters which are passed in separated by a comma will then be merged into an array behind the scenes by JavaScript.

1. Hence numbers inside of this function will still be an array, but we don't need to provide a finished array as a parameter value to sumUp.

2. Instead, we can pass a comma separated list and thanks to these three dots that will be wrapped into an array by JavaScript under the hood.

3. Hence with that, we can now adjust to code to look like this. (the same)

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(...numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

console.log(sumUp(1, 5, 10, 11, 20, 31))
```

And if I then execute this file, I get a valid result here because of this rest parameters feature here.

- => Again, it's simply an alternative. We could have wrapped that lists of values into an array ourselves, and then just accept that one array value.

- => But it's good to have that extra flexibility where you can write functions that take a dynamic amount of values so that you don't need to necessarily wrap your values into an array on your own, first.

Now relate it to this rest parameters feature here and to this three dots operator.

- => We also have another place where we can use this operator to basically do the opposite of what it does here

1. for that, keep in mind that here in this function definition, when using the three dots operator in this parameter list, it will emerge a list of individual values to gather into an array.

2. Now, let's say in the program, which we have, we have some data source, maybe some database where we get some input numbers as an array.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(...numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

const inputNumbers = [1, 5, 10, 11, 20, 31]

console.log(sumUp())
```

So here I have the number list again, but now again, merged into an array.

3. And then we have to sum up function, which is written like this. And it explicitly wants a list of values, a list of parameters instead of a single value. So some up here doesn't want an array.

4. If I pass my inputNumbers array into sum up, nonetheless, you will note that if we execute this file,

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(...numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

const inputNumbers = [1, 5, 10, 11, 20, 31]

console.log(sumUp(inputNumbers))
```

we get an unexpected result here. It's not adding these numbers mathematically.

5. And the reason for that is that sum up is written such that it wants a list of values, but it gets a single value which holds an array.

And JavaScript does not check if that is an array. And it should then maybe split that up into a list of values.

Instead it expects a list of values and it doesn't get one. Hence you get an unexpected result.

- => Now what you need to do here, if you have such a sum-up function that wants a list of values, instead of a single array is you need to convert that array, back into a list of single values.

1. Now, of course you could say, why don't we just write to function such that we do want a single array value like this?

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

const inputNumbers = [1, 5, 10, 11, 20, 31]

console.log(sumUp(inputNumbers))
```

8. And the answer would be yes, of course, for this dummy example, that would be the easiest solution,

but in more complex applications and programs, which you inevitably will see at some point as a developer,

you will simply sometimes have functions that are not written in the way that you can directly use them like this,

because you might be using them in different places of your code. And in every place you might get different kinds of input values.

So you very well might have a function that wants a list of numbers. Even though in this exact scenario here, you have a single array of numbers

- => and therefore to easily then convert such an array of numbers to a list of numbers. You also can use the three dots again, but now not in the function definition, parameter list, but instead in the place where such a list of numbers is expected.

```js
function greetUser(greetingPrefix, userName = 'user') {
  console.log(greetingPrefix + ' ' + userName + '!')
}

greetUser('Hi', 'Max')
greetUser('Hello')

function sumUp(...numbers) {
  let result = 0

  for (const number of numbers) {
    result += number // result = result + number
  }

  return result
}

const inputNumbers = [1, 5, 10, 11, 20, 31]

console.log(sumUp(...inputNumbers))
```

1. So here, when I call some up and I'm passing into concrete values that should be passed and provided to that function

- => here in such a place where you're not in a function definition, but instead in a place where concrete values are needed, the three dots here are known as the so-called `spread operator`,

1. because you spread an array out into multiple individual values.

You pull out all the values in that array and provide them as standalone values to sum up that's what the three dots do in this place.

It removes the square brackets. If you want to say like that, and hence,

2. if you now save this and you then execute this file again here, then you again, get the expected number as a result because now a list of individual numbers is passed in.

And I am fully aware that this is a bit more advanced and can be tricky to wrap your head around. If you only see a simply example like this one,

but the idea of the simple example of course, is to show you how these operators, these three dots work.

We'll see them again in certain parts of this course. And that's why I wanted to introduce them early so that you know how these operators work when you see them later again

for the moment, that's it about these operators though, but the rest parameters and dispread operator, these are features you should keep in mind.
