---
recall: header
---

# 49. Flex Properties  
Practice: we are using the same file...
--------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      * {
         box-sizing: border-box;
      }

      body {
         font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
      }

      .flex-container {
         display: flex;

      }

      .item {
            background: #f4f4f4;
            border: #ccc solid 2px;
            margin: 10px;
            padding: 10px;
            text-align: center;
            border-radius: 10px;
            width: 200px;
      }

      .item-1 {
         
      }
      .item-2 {

      }
      .item-3 {

      }
   </style>
</head>
<body>
   <div class="flex-container">
      <div class="item item-1">
         <h3>Item 1</h3>
      </div>
      <div class="item item-2">
         <h3>Item 2</h3>
      </div>
      <div class="item item-3">
         <h3>Item 3</h3>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>
</html>
--------------------------------------

*(49.1) flex-shrink*...

and the first property I want to look at is called flex shrink.  
 
the default behavior is just to shrink them all at the same rate they're all the same width.  
 
* But let's say this item one here we actually don't want it to shrink. So we could set flex shrink to zero...

```
.item-1 {
flex-shrink: 0;
}

.item-2 {
}

.item-3 {
}

.item {
}
```

* And now if I go and I do that same thing you'll see that the first one stays where it is it stays at that 200 pixels because it has a flex shrink of zero. 

The other two shrink along with it. 

And of course you could put this on all of them 
in fact you could put this on you know this item is on all three of these.

*So now if I make the smaller none of them I'm going to shrink.*

```
.item-1 {
flex-shrink: 0;
}

.item-2 {
}

.item-3 {
}

.items {
flex-shrink: 0;
}
```

* OK. So that's flex shrink. 

I'm going to remove this here. 

*(49.2) flex-grow*

The next one I want to look at is flex grow.

* So for item two I'm going to set flex grow to let's say 1 

```
.item-1 {
flex-shrink: 0;
}

.item-2 {
flex-grow: 1;
}

.item-3 {
}

.items {
}
```

* and what that's going to do is fill up the remaining space of the container. 

* You can see now even if I make this even if I make this browser super big you can see it just it fills up the rest of the space. 

These are 200 pixels. This is going to take up the remaining space. OK. 

*And you might just set all of them to flex flex grow one*

* fact if I go to items and say flex grow one then they're all just going to be even in. 

```
.item-1 {
flex-shrink: 0;
}

.item-2 {
flex-grow: 1;
}

.item-3 {
}

.items {
flex-grow: 1;
}
```

* This is what you might do in many cases when you have you know layouts where you might have an icon with some text and a button custom cards you might want to just stretch all the way across. So it's as easy as that. 

*how you can change the widths of some of these*

But I want to show you how you can you know change the widths of some of these. 

* So for item three let's add a flex grow of two.

```
.item-1 {
flex-shrink: 0;
}

.item-2 {
flex-grow: 1;
}

.item-3 {
flex-grow: 2;
}

.items {
}
```

* Now what this is supposed to do is make this item-3 twice the size or width of Item 2 which is flex grow one. 

*(49.3) flex-basis*

* And notice that it's not quite twice the size when we're on smaller screens and that's because we started with an initial width of 200 pixels. 

*So the last property I want to show you in kind of this trio is flex basis.*

* Now flex basis is is kind of like setting the width of the item. 

*So if we set flex basis to zero here in here and I save.*

```
.item-1 {
flex-shrink: 0;
}

.item-2 {
flex-grow: 1;
flex-basis: 0;
}

.item-3 {
flex-grow: 2;
flex-basis: 0;
}

.items {
}
```

* Now notice that this is is exactly twice the size of flex one flex two is twice the size of flex one. 

And it doesn't matter if I make this bigger I can see they both stretch but one is twice the size and the other even if we go down to you know really small. 

* And of course this item-1 is still set to flex shrink zero. So this just stays at 200 pixels no matter what. 

*(49.4) the Flex property*

Now you might not see these particular properties written out like this very often because 
* we also have the Flex property which implements all three of these.
 

So up here in the item let's get rid of the 200 pixels and let's let's comment this out here. So right now we're back to square one 

*flex: 1; (flex-grow: 1)*

* but let's set the Flex property to one

```
.items {
flex: 1;
}
```

* and just by doing that it's going to take up the whole width. 

* Now what this means right now is just flex grow one. 

*flex: 1 0 200px; (flex-grow: 1, flex-shrink: 2, flex-basis: 200px;)*

*However we can add shrink and basis as well. 

So this can take in three properties. Arthur I should say three values. 

So the shrink we can set to zero and then the basis will set to 200 pixels. 

* So what that's going to do if I save it looks the same. However when we get down to 200 pixels you notice that it doesn't shrink. 

Because we have the shrink set to zero and we have the basis at 200 pixels so it's not going to go. 

They're not going to go any smaller than that. OK. So 

*remember flex is grow shrink and basis *

* but a lot of the times you're just going to see like flex one because you won't need the the shrink or anything like that because a lot of times you'll implement media queries and you'll have them stack on top of each other anyway. 

Now if we wanted to have let's say item three larger we could do flex two or we could do even flex three which soon be three times the size scale. So you can change these up so you can create whatever layout you want. 

Now in the next video I want to get into alignment it's so we can you know if we want to move these down here or move them this way if they're in a column things like that so we're going to look at properties like a line items and justify content and align self. So we'll get into those next.
