---
recall: header
---

# 50. Flex Alignment & Justify  
Practice: ...
----------------------------------------
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      * {
         box-sizing: border-box;
      }

      body {
         font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
      }

      .flex-container {
         display: flex;
         flex-direction: row;
      }

      .item {
            background: #f4f4f4;
            border: #ccc solid 2px;
            margin: 10px;
            padding: 10px;
            text-align: center;
            border-radius: 10px;
            flex: 1;
      }

     
   </style>
</head>
<body>
   <div class="flex-container">
      <div class="item item-1">
         <h3>Item 1</h3>
      </div>
      <div class="item item-2">
         <h3>Item 2</h3>
      </div>
      <div class="item item-3">
         <h3>Item 3</h3>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>
</html>
```
----------------------------------------

*(50.1) align-items (Cross axis align)*...

Now align-items is the property that I want to look at first and  
 
* it's put on the container not on the items themselves because it applies to all of the items.  
 
* Now remember when it's in a row like this the horizontal access is the main axis.  
 
```
.flex-container {
display: flex;
flex-direction: row;
}  
```  
 
* OK. And then going this way (vertical) is the cross axis.

*What a align-items does is it aligns them on the cross axis.*...

* So if it's a row it's going to be this way (vertical)  
 
* So let's go ahead and say align-items and let's go ahead and add center...

```
.flex-container {
display: flex;
flex-direction: row;
align-items: center;
}  
```  
 
* Now notice that nothing changed.  
 
* And that's because the height of the Flex container is only the height of the content within it. You don't have a specific height.  
 
OK. In fact I can go ahead and add a background color I guess do Grey. So that's the Flex container.   
 
So if we add a height to this of let's say 50. VH which is viewport heights half the browser...

```
.flex-container {
background-color: #f4f4f4;
display: flex;
flex-direction: row;
align-items: center;
height: 50vh;
}  
```  
  
* Now this is the the height of the Flex box or the Flex container. And we've aligned the items to the center on the cross access. OK.


*(50.2) values for align-items*...
  
we have  
*center*  
 
We can do   
*flex-start*  
 
* which is where it was at the beginning  
you can also do  
*flex-end*  
 
* so it makes it really easy to align things  
 
* even if it's just like a showcase (hero) and you have maybe you know some heading a heading or a paragraph button just a div with some content it's very easy to align things without having to use margin and padding and all that.

*(50.3) align-items (with flex-direction: column;)*...

* Now if this was a column I'm going to change the the direction to column. (align-items: flex-end;)...

```
.flex-container {
background: #f4f4f4;
display: flex;
flex-direction: column;
align-items: flex-end;
height: 50vh;
}  
```  
 
* Now notice that it's aligning it to the end here horizontally (on the right column)  
 
*because when it's a column this is the cross access. (horizontal)*  
 
And this is the main access (vertically)  
 
and *align-items* is always on cross axis align  

and if I change this align-items to center then it's going to be centered this way

(And one thing I didn't show you in the last video with like the Flex grow and all that is that in a column... So if I set flex one let's just comment that out then it's just going to be the regular you know the regular height of the items, but we can set flex one or I could take item two and I could set flex to like that and then that's going to be. So you can do the same thing in the column fashion )

*(50.4) other value for align-items (stretch)*...

So back to align-items Let's put that to row...  
 
```
.flex-container {
background: #f4f4f4;
display: flex;
flex-direction: row;
align-items: flex-end;
height: 50vh;
}  
```  
 
So we have flex-start, flex-end, center,  
we also have  
*stretch*...

```
.flex-container {
background: #f4f4f4;
display: flex;
flex-direction: row;
align-items: stretch;
height: 50vh;
}  
```  
 
* So if I do stretch it's just going to stretch all the items so that they're all the height of the container. 
 
But yeah that's that's a line items.

*(50.5) justify-content (main axis align)*...

* Now we also have justify-content which is going to be the main access line.  
  
So let's say main axis line and let's say  
*justify-content: center;*...

```
.flex-container {
background: #f4f4f4;
display: flex;
flex-direction: row;
/* Cross axis align */
align-items: center;
/* Main axis align */
justify-content: center;
height: 50vh;
}  
```  
 
Now you can't really tell here because I mean these are we have a set of flex 1...

```
.item {
  background: #f4f4f4;
  border: #ccc solid 2px;
  margin: 10px;
  padding: 10px;
  text-align: center;
  border-radius: 10px;
  /* flex: 1; */
}
```
So now you can see that it's centered on the main access because we have justified content.

We could do *justify-content: flex-start;*...

which would put it there 

do *justify-content: flex-end;*...

which will put at the end.

Now we have some other cool options here too like *justify-content: space-around;*...

so it takes whatever the remaining spaces and these could be any with but it just distributed around the items including the sides.

Now if you don't want the space on the sides we also have *justify-content: space-between;*...

and now there's no space on the side.  
 
We just have everything distributed in the in the middle of the items and it doesn't matter again how many you have. You could put some more here and it's just going to distribute that space in between. All right.  
 
So pretty cool. Very very easy to do

*(50.6) justify-content: (with) flex-direction: column;*...

and obviously if we change this flex-direction: to column; then justify-content is gonna be this way  (vertical)  because it's on the main access so we have space between each one.  
 
If we wanted to do center or if we wanted to do flex its to flex and and it'll line it this way down at the bottom  
 
so there's gonna be a lot of times that you see  
* display: flex;  
* align-items: center;  
and  
* justify-content: center; 
 
*because just I mean you just center a lot of things in your layouts and that's one of the easiest ways to do it.*

*(50.7) align-self*...
 
* now we can also align each one individually if we want.  
So let's change this back to a row. Not that I don't know what that is a call call Rome. It's changed that back to a row.  
 
So we have everything centered now.  
 
* If I want to take let's say item one and there's a property called a align-self and let's set that to flex start.  
 
```
.flex-container {
background: #f4f4f4;
display: flex;
flex-direction: row;
/* Cross axis align */
align-items: center;
/* Main axis align */
justify-content: center;
height: 50vh;
}

.item-1 {
align-self: flex-start;
}
```
 
* They're all set to center but I'm going to take just the first one and put that to flex start  
 
* and then I'll take. Let's take item 3 and let's say a line self and let's set that one to flex end.  
 
OK so you can take each one and you can align them differently than the. The main alignment of a line items. OK  
 
so those those properties are really important especially these two. So we'll be using them quite a bit through the course but that's the main idea of flex box it's just aligning things in in rows or columns and centering them and it just makes things much much easier than floats with margins and padding and percentages and in you'll see when we get into our projects how much easier this makes it all right. So that's it. I'll see you in the next 1.
-->