# 396. Asynchronous Code & Error Handling

Now we also learn about promises,

often an alternative to working with callback functions,

which you pass directly to the method

that starts the async operation.

Now in both scenarios, things can go wrong.

Errors could occur.

And since async operations

work such that an operation is started

and the code thereafter executes

without waiting for that result,

you can't use try catch here around your promise.

So we can't do that here.

I mean, we can write this code,

but it won't work as intended.

And we also can't do that if we use a callback function.

Wrapping this with try catch also would not work as intended

because try would only check if calling read file succeeds

and not whether the result of read file is a success.

That's why in case of the callback approach,

we get this error parameter,

which tells us whether an error occurred or not.

And then we can always use a if check

to see if error is set, if it's truthy as we learned,

and then do something with it.

That's something we can do to handle errors

when working with callbacks.

And I'll leave it at that dummy example here

because we'll see better, more concrete examples

in the later course sections.

In case of promises, it's a bit different.

Here in this anonymous function,

we only get the data if the operation here

reading the file succeeded.

If that operation failed,

we instead can add another method here

to this promise chain and that's the catch method.

Promises have a then method to handle the success case

and catch to handle any errors

that might've occurred in a previous promise.

Catch also takes a function,

but a function which gets that error object

that describes the error that occurred.

And then here we can console.log that error

or handle it in any way we wanna handle it.

And that's how you do handle errors

with promises or callbacks.

Again, we'll see better a little bit more concrete examples

a little bit later in the course,

but that's already the knowledge you need

to understand how error handling will work later on.
