# 285. Getting Started with "Control Structures"

```
I'm back in our main project here. So outside of this exercise to file back to this main index HTML file, which I again opened with live server. So did I see this demo from before again.


Now we want to explore controlled structures and that of course brings up one very important question.


What exactly are controlled structures?
```

- => in Java script And basically in all programming languages, we have two main kinds of controlled structures

because

- => when we talk about control structures, we mean special JavaScript language features a special syntax that allow us as a developer to control under which `conditions` certain code is executed or `how often` some code is executed.

1. And when it comes to controlling, whatever code is executed or not So to the left part here then, we are talking about `if statements` as a language feature that allows us to do that

2. on the right side. Here we are talking about `loops` that allow us to execute some code multiple times until some condition is met or anything like that.

- => And of course, we're going to dive into both, but `we are going to start with if statements`,

- since data's also what will help us implement that feature that we changed the color of this span here, and the background color of this input. If we go below 10 characters of remaining characters

1. now, in order to get started with if statements though, I'll add a new file, conditional-code.js, and I'll import I'll add dis conditional code JS file instead of the demo JS file here in my index HTML file.

- So that this conditional code JS file will get executed.

- => And here I want to show you the general syntax for writing conditional code.

1. Let's say we have some code where I `console log hello`, so that we would see this in the developer console, but I only want to execute this `if my name is max`.

- So here I'll add a variable or a constant named my name and ill store of value of max in there.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

console.log('Hello!')
```

> Now of course, for this example, the value will always be max because I'm not extracting that from some user input or anything like that. Instead, I hard-coded this here into my code,

> but let's again, assume that this is dynamic, that this is a value. We are fetching from some user and then case it's max, when I console log, hello. Otherwise I don't.

- => To make that work, we need to write a so-called if statement.

1. And we do that by using the if keyword, which is a reserved keyword in JavaScript.

- And then we add brackets parentheses, and we'll put something between those brackets soon.

- And then we add curly braces, opening and closing.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if () {}
console.log('Hello!')
```

> So it looks a bit like a function, but of course we don't use the function keyword.

> And we also don't give this if statement a name instead, it's really just, if then does pair of parentheses,

> I do add a blank here. It's technically not required, but recommended for readability reasons and then another blank, which is not required, but makes it more readable and then curly braces.

2. And then I'll hit enter to start a new line just as with functions.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if () {

}
console.log('Hello!')

```

> This new line is also not required, but adding a new line and in denting our code here by hitting that tap key on our keyboard, again, makes it more readable. And there for, we typically use this way of writing our control structure code as well.

3. And then I'll cut to this console log statement and inserted here, indented between those curly braces.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if () {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

```

- => Now that's a if statement,

but an if statement that won't work as it can also tell by these red squiggly lines here, which indicate that we have an error and the error is that an expression is expected, which basically means

- => we need to put some code between those brackets, but which code?
