# 12. Three Pillars of Writing Good HTML and CSS

> 1. three important and fundamental principles that we need to constantly keep in mind

`the three pillars of writing good HTML and CSS`

> 2. responsive design or responsive web design

- which simply means that we build one website that works beautifully across all screen sizes on all devices.

the fundamentals of responsive web design:

- fluid layouts
- media queries
- responsive images
- using correct units
- desktop-first vs mobile-first strategy

We're going to talk about all of that during the project of this course.

> 3. writing maintainable and scalable code

- writing maintainable and scalable code means to write code that is:
- clean
- easy to understand
- that supports future growth
- and above all, it is reusable for you, as well as for other developers who might take on your project in the future.

- So, if we want to write maintainable and scalable code, we need to care and think about our CSS architecture, which is the way we organize our files,

- how we name our classes,

- and how we structure our mark up in HTML.

> 4. web performance

- Making a website or app more performant means to make it faster and to make it smaller in size, so that the user has to download less data.

there are many things that affect performance, and some factors don't have much to do with our code. But some of the things that we can do is to:

- make as little HTTP requests as possible meaning that we should include as little as possible files in our HTML document,
- write as little code as possible of course,
- compress our code
- use a preprocessor like Sass

- the biggest impact we can have on performance is to actually reduce the use of images because images are usually what makes up by far the biggest part of the size of a website.

We can do so by using only images that are really necessary for a website or app.

And also by compressing these images so that you use less bandwidth for the final user.
