---
recall: header
---

# 48. Flexbox Basics  
Practice: 3 item boxes...
------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      * {
         box-sizing: border-box;
      }

      body {
         font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
      }

      .item {
            background: #f4f4f4;
            border: #ccc solid 2px;
            margin: 10px;
            padding: 10px;
            text-align: center;
            border-radius: 10px; 
      }
   </style>
</head>
<body>
   <div class="flex-container">
      <div class="item item-1">
         <h3>Item 1</h3>
      </div>
      <div class="item item-2">
         <h3>Item 2</h3>
      </div>
      <div class="item item-3">
         <h3>Item 3</h3>
      </div>
   </div>
</body>
</html>
------------------------------------

*(48.1) to align flex items side by side*...

Now if I want to align these side by side with Flex blocks it's incredibly easy  
 
* we just take the Flex container  
  
whatever that may be in this case it's just a div with the class flex container  
 
* and we just set the display property  
  
So remember we have display block we have inline inline block  
 
* we also have flex as an option...

```
.flex-container {
display: flex;
}  
```  
 
* And as soon as I do that it turns it into a flex box. OK.  
 
*and it's going to actually align Horizontal in a row by default.*

*(48.2) And we we automatically have certain alignment properties that we can use.*...

*(48.3) We also have properties to basically change the widths of these to fill up the entire row (which I'm going to get into in the next video).*...

* But for now I'm just going to set this to a width  
 
* so the item I'm setting to a width of 200 pixels.  
 
* So each one of these items are gonna be two hundred pixels

*(48.4) and it doesn't matter how many of these we have*...

like we can add an extra one here

*(48.5) and we could add anything like if I put an h1*...  
 
* as long as it's a direct child of flex flex container it's gonna be put into the Flex box and added to the row.

*(48.6) Now we can also change the direction or the orientation of our Flex box*...

* so by default let's say flex direction by default it's a row which goes horizontal...

*flex-direction: row*...

```
.flex-container {
display: flex;
flex-direction: row;
}  
```  
 
* and in a row This is the main access (horizontal) and this is the cross access (vertical)

*flex-direction: column*...

* Now I can change this to a column and then they're going to be stacked on top of each other...

```
.flex-container {
display: flex;
flex-direction: column;
}  
```  
 
* in a column is the main axis of the Flex box (vertical) and this is the cross access (horizontal)  
 
* So the Axis changes depending on the direction.

*(48.7) we can change the direction of the items*...

And we can also do column...

*column-reverse*  
  
and now notice that item 3 is on top. So that will reverse it. 
 
We can also do...

*row-reverse*  
 
and intellectually align to this side and then item one is at the end. Okay. 
 
But I'm just going to keep this at row. In fact we don't even need to use it because that's the default anyway.

*(48.8) flex wrap property*...

Now before we move on to the next video and look at some other properties the last one I want to show you here is flex wrap.   
 
*by default we have this set to I believe it's no wrap.*  
 
Where if we make this smaller you'll see that they just shrink up until they can't shrink anymore.  
 
But if we have...

*flex-wrap*  
 
set to wrap and we go ahead and shrink this. Notice how when we get to a certain size they basically move on to the next row.  
 
OK. So I mean it really just depends on how you want your layout  
 
