# 392. Classes & Methods (and "this")

Now,

we added our first class here and at the moment,

it's already useful to allow us to

create multiple objects with different properties.

But as I mentioned before,

you can always add logic to your own classes.

You can add your own methods

just as to build in date

blueprint has this

to ISO string method,

and you can add your own methods

by simply adding them inside of this

class

block.

So not inside of the constructor,

you only use the constructor to

initialize your object

and to add the properties with which it should start.

But methods on the other hand are added

to the class like that after the constructor.

For example here,

we could add a describe

method

where I wanna,

output some information about the job

and here we could use that

template literal feature we learned about

and say,

I'm

a,

and then add the title

and we'll do that in a second.

Then we add a comma and say,

I work in

and have another placeholder for the location.

And then I maybe say,

and I earn,

and we have a last placeholder for the salary.

Now the question just is

how do we fill those placeholders?

Well in the end here,

I want to refer to the title.

Here I want to refer to the location

and here in the last place holder,

I want to refer to the salary.

Now these are all properties in this object,

but how can we now refer to these properties

from inside a method

that belongs to the same object?

We can't just use the property name like that.

If I just type title here,

I'm not getting an error,

but actually title won't be defined

in this function,

in this method,

because it's not a constant

or variable that would be globally available

in this block or in a surrounding block.

Instead,

title here really is just a property of this object.

Now we also can't say job dot Title

because the job is also,

not a variable that doesn't exist here.

And maybe with a capital J,

then it would be a class,

but the class is just a blueprint.

Here I need the concrete title

of an object based on that

blueprint.

So that's also not the solution.

Instead it's again the this keyword

in the constructor,

we use the this key word to refer to the object

That's about to be created.

In all the other methods of this blueprint,

We'd refer to the already

created

object.

So this here,

again refers to the object that

was

created,

actually that this keyword can be

a bit tricky in JavaScript,

but in general, it works as I just described it.

It allows you to refer to the object

on which you call this method.

So therefore,

here we can then output this

location.

And then here at the end,

we output this dot salary.

And now with that,

we're using the this keyword to refer to

the different properties inside of this method,

which also belongs to the blueprint.

And since we defined this method in the blueprint,

we can use it on

all the objects we create based

on the blueprint.

So instead of console logging my developer like this,

I can write developer,

describe,

and execute this method.

And do the same for the cook and call describe.

And that again,

shows us why blueprints are useful if we create

multiple objects of the same type,

we only have to define the properties once.

Now,

we also only have to define our logic

that belongs to this object once

and still,

we can then use this method on

multiple different objects

that were created based on the same blueprint.

and there for,

Of course, if I now execute this,

I get the expected output where

I have different values for title,

place,

and salary for the different objects.

So

classes are another feature that can be useful.

Sometimes you create your own classes

so that you have your own reusable blueprints.

But very often you will also work with

built in

classes,

Built in blueprints,

that are either built into JavaScript itself,

or that are provided by third-party packages.

As all the concepts I explain in this module,

we'll also see the new keyword

and classes again later in the course.

And it's now hopefully clear

what the class keyword does

and what the new keyword does

and how the two concepts work together

to allow

you to create

and use blueprints

to then build objects

based on these blueprints.
