---
recall: header
---

# 117. Functions, Mixins & More  
Practice: in sandbox

*All right guys. Now we're going to get into functions and mixins*...

Now if you've ever worked with a programming language whether it's javascript PHP any language at all you've probably worked with functions.  
 
It's basically just a block of code that you can keep calling so you don't have to keep repeating yourself.

*So what I want to do is create a new SASS file a partial so to say new file underscore we'll call this  _functions.scss*...

And then in here I want to create a function to set the text color.

*Now the main difference between a function and a mixin is*...

a function actually returns something you have to use the return keyword  
 
a mixin is just basically a set of styles that you want to include  
 
(And I'll I'll I'll give you some examples of this)

*So to create a function*...

we use the at symbol and we say function  
 
and we're gonna call this set-tex-color()  
 
(and by the way this is a very helpful function that I use all the time in SASS)  
 
and it's going to take in a parameter of a $color...

```
// Set Text Color

@function set-text-color($color) {

}
```

*Now we're gonna use what's called a `color function` along with a `conditional` to see the lightness of the color that's passed in*...

so to create a conditional we do the at symbol and then if...

```
// Set Text Color

@function set-text-color($color) {
   @if () {

   }
}  
```  
and then our condition goes in here, ()  
 
So what we're testing is going to be the lightness we have lightness of the color...

```
/// Set Text Color

@function set-text-color($color) {
   @if(lightness($color)) {

   }
}  
```  
 
So basically whatever is passed in here rechecking the lightness  
 
and we want to see if it's greater than 50.  
 
so greater than basically 50 percent lightness...

```
/// Set Text Color

@function set-text-color($color) {
   @if(lightness($color)) {

   }
}
```

*If that's true then we want to return*...

So we say @return  
 
and we want to return a dark-color  
 
which we'll just do black...

```
/// Set Text Color

@function set-text-color($color) {
   @if(lightness($color)) {
      @return #000;
   }
}
```

*@else we want to @return a light color*...

so we'll do white...

```
/// Set Text Color

@function set-text-color($color) {
   @if(lightness($color)) {
     @return #000;
   } @else {
     @return #fff;
   }
}  
```  
 
so it's going to get passed in the $color  
 
which is gonna be the background color  
 
(actually maybe we should call this the colors fine just know that it's going to be the background color)  
 
and it's gonna check the lightness of it if it's greater than 50  
 
meaning it's light then we want to return a dark color  
 
if it's less than 50  
 
meaning it's dark then we want a light color  
 
because obviously we want the text to contrast  
 
so I'm going to save this  

*and I'm just going to restart this down here `npm run sass`*...

*and I'm going to go in to my main.scss and I'm going to import the functions file*...

```
@import "variables";
@import "functions";

```

*and then I want to, let's go to the header*...

where we have right here the color of this H1...

`basically of anything that's in the header`  
 
and I'm going to replace this with set-text-color()...

```
header {
  background: $dark-color;
  color: set-text-color()
  padding: 1rem;  
```  
 
Now this set text color takes in member a background color  
 
and we want to put him whatever we used here is the background which in this case is dark color 
 
so we'll paste that in there...

```
header {
  background: $dark-color;
  color: set-text-color($dark-color)
  padding: 1rem;  
```  
 
And now let's save

*Now it's going to look the same but if I now change the header background to something light*...

like let's change it to light color  
 
and then we pass in the same the light color here and we save the text is now dark OK.  
 
If I do background primary color primary color it's going to evaluate the lightness of it.  
 
And it found that the lightness is less than 50. So it gives it a white background secondary color is a brighter color  
 
so I'm gonna bet that the text is going to be dark.  
 
So secondary color for the background and now the text is dark.  
 
So it makes it dynamic so you don't have to if you if you want to change the background then you can it'll dynamically change the text to whether it should be light or dark.  
 
You don't have to decide that this function does it for you. All right.  
 
So I'm just going to put this back to dark like that. All right.

*And then I just want to use this  set text color pretty much everywhere.*...

So we'll go down here and pay set in and we just want to pass on whatever the background is OK so we'll do it here as well.  
 
We'll set this to secondary color and let's do it. Here this has light color as background.  
 
And then down here this has dark color as a background.  
 
So once I save this it should all still be correct. So save.  
 
And this actually changed to dark because of the light background. OK.  
 
And that. Yeah. That's it.  
 
So hopefully that makes sense. Guys it just this is helpful because it allows us to basically set the color dynamically  
 
but functions in general are helpful so that you don't have to keep repeating code.  
 
And so are mixins.

*So now we're going to look at creating a mixin*...

and all I want this mixin to do.  
 
(We're gonna put it right in the function's file)  
 
is I want it to add a transform. 
 
So basically if we want to like you know if we want it to add a transform to make this button curve or something like that we can do that.  
 
So let's say this is going to be the transform mixin.  
 
(And once we start doing this stuff in the next project it'll make more sense as well.)

*So a mixin we're gonna say*...

@mixin  
 
and then name it and I'm just gonna call it transform  
 
and it's gonna take in a property...

```
// Transform mixin

@mixin transform($property) {

}  
```  
 
Now in some cases you may want to use prefixes for for newer CSS  
 
and that's another good reason to to use mixins

*we can like let's say we wanted to do*...
 
--webkit-transform, Set it to $property

*and maybe you want to do*...

-ms-transform, and set that to $property.

*And then of course just*...

transform. set that to $property...

```
// Transform mixin

@mixin transform($property) {
   -webkit-transform: $property;
   -ms-transform: $property;
   transform: $property;
}  
```  
 
So if you have a block of styles that you don't want to keep repeating in your sass  
 
you can just put it into a mixin.

*So now if I want to go back to my main.scss and let's say on the hover state of these buttons*...

```
.btn {
  &-light {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $light-color;
    color: set-text-color($light-color);
  }

  &-dark {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $dark-color;
    color: #fff;
  }
}
```

*I want to add a transform that rotates them a little bit*...

so I'll go right here and let's put in...

`&:hover {}` and let's set the mixin  
 
now to include a mixin and you actually have to do the `@include`  
 
and then the name of the mixin which is `transform()`...

```
.btn {
  &-light {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $light-color;
    color: set-text-color($light-color);

    &:hover {
       @include transform();
    }
  }

  &-dark {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $dark-color;
    color: #fff;
  }
}  
```  
 
the property we want to pass in is gonna be rotate()  
 
and let's rotate it 20 degrees  
 
*and I'm going to do the same thing for the dark*...

So paste that in if it's dark though let's do it let's do negative 20 we'll try to rotate it the opposite way...

```
.btn {
  &-light {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $light-color;
    color: set-text-color($light-color);

    &:hover {
      @include transform(rotate(20deg));
    }
  }

  &-dark {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $dark-color;
    color: #fff;

    &:hover {
      @include transform(rotate(-20deg));
    }
  }
}  
```  
 
So if I save now  
 
and I hover over this you'll see it rotates 20 degrees.  
 
This one rotates that way. OK.  
 
So instead of using this these three lines in both of these places  
 
I can put it in the mixin and just include that. OK.  
 
I mean you don't really need web kit an ms anymore for transform  
 
however You know if it's a different if it's a newer CSS property that you do need you know prefixes this is a good way to include them  
 
And not just for prefixes but for anything any set of styles that you're going to reuse.

*So let's see the last thing I want to show you is some of the color functions*...

we have lighten() and darken()  
 
let's say in addition to just tilting these we want them to either darken our light in a little bit.  
 
So in the hover here I'm going to set the  `background-color:`  
 
So the background color is is this light color by default  
 
let's say I just want to darken it a little bit so we can say `darken()`  
 
(So this is a predefined function. I don't have to create it.)  
 
And we just pass in two things the color we want.  
 
So we'll say `$light-color` and then how much we want to darken it. We're going to do `10%`...

```
.btn {
  &-light {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $light-color;
    color: set-text-color($light-color);

    &:hover {
      @include transform(rotate(20deg));
      background-color: darken($light-color, 10%)
    }
  }

  &-dark {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $dark-color;
    color: #fff;

    &:hover {
      @include transform(rotate(-20deg));
    }
  }
}  
```  
 
So save that.  
 
Now when I hover over it. Notice that the color darkens 10 percent. OK.  
 
We also have lighten()...

So I'm going to just copy what I just did  
 
go down here to this hover and let's change this to lighten  
 
And this has the dark color and we're going to lighten it 10 percent...

```
.btn {
  &-light {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $light-color;
    color: set-text-color($light-color);

    &:hover {
      @include transform(rotate(20deg));
      background-color: darken($light-color, 10%)
    }
  }

  &-dark {
    @extend %btn-shared;
    background-color: $dark-color;
    color: #fff;

    &:hover {
      @include transform(rotate(-20deg));
      background-color: lighten($dark-color, 10%)
    }
  }
}  
  
```  
 
So we'll save.  
 
And then on a hover over it you'll see that at lightning 10 percent. All right.  
 
So you can see that there's some really cool functionality with SASS  
 
it really allows us to write our CSX more like a programming language  
 
conditionals, you can't do this stuff with standard CSS  
 
pre made functions and mixins  
 
you can do variables  
 
however you can see that the variables with SASS are much more elegant.  
 
You know you don't have to do the VAR in the parentheses and you know stuff like that.