---
recall: header
---

# 10. Headings, Paragraphs & Text Formatting

---

0. Practice in the index.html file

_headings_...

> Heading tags are part of semantic HTML

> They are used to define headings

> They go from h1 to h6

> Size is largest for h1 by default and smallest for h6 by default

1. make headings from h1 to h6 "My heading"...

```js
<h1>My Heading 1</h1>
<h2>My Heading 2</h2>
<h3>My Heading 3</h3>
<h4>My Heading 4</h4>
<h5>My Heading 5</h5>
<h6>My Heading 6</h6>
```

_paragraphs_

> `<p></p>` element is used for writing a paragraph of texts in HTML

> You can include p inside other elements like div, section, article

2. Using emmet make a paragraph with 100 words...

**Text Formatting tags**

_strong tag_

> The `<strong></strong>` tag is used to define text with strong importance.

> The content inside is typically displayed in bold.

1. Use the strong tag in some of the words in the paragraph...

_emphasis tag_

> The `<em></em>` tag is used to define emphasized text. The content inside is typically displayed in italic.

> A screen reader will pronounce the words in `<em></em>` with an emphasis, using verbal stress.

2. Use the emphasis tag in some of the words in the paragraph....

_line break_

> The `<br>` tag inserts a single line break.

> The `<br>` tag is useful for writing addresses or poems.

> The `<br>` tag is an empty tag which means that it has no end tag.

3. use the br tag inside the paragraph...

_horizontal rule_

> The `<hr>` tag defines a thematic break in an HTML page (e.g. a shift of topic).

> The `<hr>` element is most often displayed as a horizontal rule that is used to separate content (or define a change) in an HTML page.

4. use the br tag after the paragraph....

_deprecated tags_...

> in the early days of HTML there was a fair amount of markup designed to control the look of the page right alongside the content.

> all of which is now deprecated due to the aforementioned separation of concerns.

_deleted tag_

> The `<del></del>` tag defines text that has been deleted from a document. Browsers will usually strike a line through deleted text.

5. Use the del tag in this html doc...
