# 282. Time to Practice: The Problem

- => So it's time to, again, practice what you learned and therefore attached, You find this exercise-2 zip file, which contains three files, which you can simply add in a subfolder to your project

> as I did it here.

> So simply add that extracted folder to your project folder for example, by simply dragging and dropping it here into visual studio code, or by opening this project in the windows Explorer or a Mac finder and adding the extracted folder there.

- => And now in that folder, as you can see, I got an HTML, a JavaScript, and a CSS file.

- The CSS file just has some basic styles for a button or a section.

- And the index HTML file just has a basic skeleton. And then a bit of text, a couple of paragraphs and a couple of buttons in there.

- => Now you can simply open this with the live server extension again. And once you did that, you will see this here on the page.

> That's the content I prepared for you.

> And out of the box, these buttons don't do anything by the way, they just sit there, but they don't do anything.

> Please note that these buttons are also not part of a form because here we will not use them for submitting or validating any user input.

> But instead, I want to use these buttons to trigger some non form related actions.

- => Now, which actions should be triggered is actually described in this text, but also in the exercise.js file.

- In there, you won't see any JavaScript code yet. Instead you only find a written instructions.

```js
// Practice what you learned!

// 1) Select the two <button> elements and store them in two different variables.
//    - Select the first button without adding or using any "id"
//    - Select the second button by using an "id"

// 2) Add "click" event listener to both buttons (with two different functions).
//    The functions should "console.dir()" the clicked buttons.
//    - Output the first button by using the variable in which it's stored
//    - Output the second button WITHOUT using the variable in which it's stored

// 3) Now select and store the paragraphs mentioned in the text you see on the page
//    (first and third paragraph)
//    - Select BOTH paragraphs by drilling into the document and "navigating" to the
//      mentioned elements
//    - If you struggle with DOM drilling, use "ids" instead but watch the solution!

// 4) Change the functions from (2) such that:
//    - The first button removes the third paragraph (i.e. the <p> prior to it)
//    - The second button changes the background color of the first paragraph to blue

// 5) Solve (4) both by changing the "inline styles" as well as by adding CSS classes
//    Note: You'll have to add those classes to the styles.css file first!
```

> And here's what I want you to do in the next minutes. And in the lecture thereafter, we are, of course, going to solve this together. So that you also see my solution and you can compare yours to mine.

1. Now, what I want you to do, is I want you to select the two button elements, which you find in this index HTML file.

```js
// Practice what you learned!

// 1) Select the two <button> elements and store them in two different variables.
//    - Select the first button without adding or using any "id"
//    - Select the second button by using an "id"

const removeParagraphButton = document.querySelector('button')

const changeBackgroundColorButton = document.getElementById(
  'background-color-button'
)
```

- So these two buttons, you should select them and store them in two different variables. And I'm calling it variables here. But of course you can also consider using constants here if the values never change.

- Now, you should actually select the first button without adding or using any ID to it. So you will need to find a different way of selecting the button.

- And you should select the second button by using an ID. So by adding some ID to this button, it doesn't have one yet, you will have to add one.

- And then you should select that button with help of that ID. And then store it in a variable.

> That's task number one.

2. Now in task, number two, you should use these buttons to add click event listeners to the buttons.

```js
// 2) Add "click" event listener to both buttons (with two different functions).
//    The functions should "console.dir()" the clicked buttons.
//    - Output the first button by using the variable in which it's stored
//    - Output the second button WITHOUT using the variable in which it's stored

function removeParagraph() {
  console.dir(removeParagraphButton)
}

removeParagraphButton.addEventListener('click', removeParagraph)

function changeBackgroundColor(event) {
  console.dir(event.target)
}

changeBackgroundColorButton.addEventListener('click', changeBackgroundColor)
```

- And those two click event listeners, which you add should trigger two different functions. So you'll need two functions, two different functions that should be triggered.

- And, for the moment, both functions should output console.dir, the clicked button elements,

- but the first function for the first button, to which you added a listener, should actually output that button with help of the variable, which you created in one in task one.

- The second button and the event listener attached to that button should actually output that button without using that variable.

- So you'll have to find a different way of getting access to the clicked button.

3. In task number three, I then want you to also select and store the paragraphs mentioned in the text.

```js
// 3) Now select and store the paragraphs mentioned in the text you see on the page
//    (first and third paragraph)
//    - Select BOTH paragraphs by drilling into the document and "navigating" to the
//      mentioned elements
//    - If you struggle with DOM drilling, use "ids" instead but watch the solution!

const firstParagraph = document.body.children[2].children[1]

console.dir(firstParagraph)

const thirdParagraph = document.body.children[2].children[3]

console.dir(thirdParagraph)
```

- So if you read the text,you see that that will be this paragraph. And the first paragraph, I also repeated here,

- you should select these two paragraphs and store them in variables as well. But here I want you to select both paragraphs by drilling into the document.

- So not with query selector or anything like that, but with help of drilling.

- And you should then simply find a way of selecting these two different paragraphs and storing them in variables.

- And if you struggle with that, then you can fall back to using these utility methods, but definitely try to select them with drilling.

4. Once you completed task three, in task four, I want you to change the functions that you created that in task two, which currently only outputs to click buttons,

```js
// 4) Change the functions from (2) such that:
//    - The first button removes the third paragraph (i.e. the <p> prior to it)
//    - The second button changes the background color of the first paragraph to blue

function removeParagraph() {
  thirdParagraph.remove()
}

removeParagraphButton.addEventListener('click', removeParagraph)

function changeBackgroundColor(event) {
  firstParagraph.style.backgroundColor = 'turquoise'
}

changeBackgroundColorButton.addEventListener('click', changeBackgroundColor)
```

- such that the first button, so this button here, actually removes this paragraph when it's clicked. So you should find a way of doing that.

- And the second button, so this here, of course, should actually change this first paragraph, such that it adds a blue background color to it.

- That's what these buttons should do, once task four is completed.

5. Now in task number five, I want you to repeat four or this second part of four, to be precise,

```js
// 5) Solve (4) both by changing the "inline styles" as well as by adding CSS classes
//    Note: You'll have to add those classes to the styles.css file first!

function changeBackgroundColor(event) {
  firstParagraph.className = 'blue-background'
}
```

- but instead of changing the inline styles of that paragraph, you should now try to add a blue background by adding a CSS class to that paragraph once the button is clicked.

- Now here's an important note. You'll have to add the CSS class two, because installed CSS, there currently is no predefined clause that would do that.

- And that's it. These are my tasks for you. Definitely try them on your own, first. In the next lecture, we'll do them together.
