---
recall: header
---


# 75. CSS Transitions  
Practice:  
--------------------------------------
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      body {
         background: #333;
         display: flex;
         align-items: center;
         justify-content: center;
         height: 100vh;
      }

      .box {
         background: white;
         width: 100px;
         height: 100px;
      }
   </style>
</head>

<body>
   <div class="box"></div>
</body>

</html>
```
--------------------------------------

*(75.1) transition-property:*...
 
* transitions are similar to how keyframe animations work except transitions happen basically on an event.  
 
let's first look at the. It's actually called Transition property.  

So you're going to say...

*transition-property:*  
 
And here's where we specify which properties we actually want to have a transition on  
 
a hover or something like that.  
 
So we could do all or we could specify a specific property so I'm going to start off with just a specific property of...

*transition-property: background;*  
 
So that's the property that I want to add a transition to.  
 
And then let's add a...

*transition-duration: 2s;*  
 
So this would be in seconds let's say we'll say two seconds...

```
.box {
   background: white;
   width: 100px;
   height: 100px;
   transition-property: background;
   transition-duration: 2s;
}
```

*(75.2) to add a hover event*...

Now if I save that nothing happens 

because the way that this works is like I said it has to be on some kind of event. 

So we're going to add a hover. So it's a box hover...

```
.box {
   background: white;
   width: 100px;
   height: 100px;
   transition-property: background;
   transition-duration: 2s;
}

.box:hover {
   background: red;
}  
``` 
 
And I'm just going to set the background to read. OK. That's it.  
 
Now if I save this  
 
and I hover over it (let me just show you without the transition first).  
 
If we get rid of that and I hover over it it just it just goes to red. Right.  
 
We've seen this before.  
 
* If I use it transition it slowly transitions into red.  
 
* And then when I come off it it transitions back to white guy in the in the duration of two seconds.  
 
So you can just use the sign simple button hovers maybe put like one second on the button hover and it just gives it a smoother effect rather than just you know shifting right to red.

*(75.3) Now we can also add delays if we want.*...

So we could say transition dash delay say one second. 

And now if I if I hover over it nothing's going to happen for one second. Actually that wasn't really noticeable let's do three seconds and I'm hovering over it. And after three seconds it starts...

```
.box {
   background: white;
   width: 100px;
   height: 100px;
   transition-property: background;
   transition-duration: 2s;
   transition-delay: 3s;
}

.box:hover {
   background: red;
}  
```  
 
So that's the transition delay.

*(75.4) We also have the timing function.*...

I'm going to put that right here.  
 
transition-timing-function.  
 
And this we're going to use ease in out...

```
.box {
   background: white;
   width: 100px;
   height: 100px;
   transition-property: background;
   transition-duration: 2s;
   transition-timing-function: ease-in;
   /*transition-delay: 3s; */
}

.box:hover {
   background: red;
}  
```  
 
* So basically just like with the key frames (and let's comment out) the delay and just ease in and out.  
 
So it starts off slow and ends slow.

*(75.5) the transition property (shorthand)*...

* Now of course you can take all of this and put this all together in just the transition property.  
 
We can say  
 
*background*  
 
then we can do it the  
 
*duration*  
 
which we'll say two seconds and the  
 
*timing function*  
 
ease in out. And  
 
*if we wanted to delay*  
 
we could add that on here as well  
  
* But I don't want to delay  
 
so doing this we should be able to comment all this stuff though because it does the same exact thing.  
 
So we'll save and then...

```
.box {
   background: white;
   width: 100px;
   height: 100px;
   /*transition-property: background;
   transition-duration: 2s;
   transition-timing-function: ease-in;
   transition-delay: 3s; */
   
   /* Shorthand - property/duration/timing-function/delay */
   transition: background 2s ease-in-out;
}

.box:hover {
   background: red;
}  
``` 
 
we go. OK.  
 
Now there's other  
 
*(75.6) border-radius (other things that we can add that we can transition.)*...

So let's let's go ahead and say border dash radius  
 
and we'll set that to 50 percent.  
 
* Now if I hover over it. Notice that the transition is only working on the color background color the border radius is just switching right away.  
 
That's because we didn't specify that here.  
 
* Now what I could do is I could add a comma and I could say we also want to transition border radius that and now you can see that it transitions.  
 
* But what I would probably do here is in all  
 
* unless there was something you didn't want to transition for some reason but I want everything here to transition...

```
.box {
   background: white;
   width: 100px;
   height: 100px;
   /*transition-property: background;
   transition-duration: 2s;
   transition-timing-function: ease-in;
   transition-delay: 3s; */
   
   /* Shorthand - property/duration/timing-function/delay */
   transition: all 2s ease-in-out;
}

.box:hover {
   background: red;
   border-radius: 50%;
}  
```  
 
* So that works the same way we get a cool little effect.  
 
? (75.7) Now we can also do like the height and the width  
 
so let's say we want to make it bigger we'll say 300 pixels and say with 300 pixels and save...

```
.box {
   background: white;
   width: 100px;
   height: 100px;
   /*transition-property: background;
   transition-duration: 2s;
   transition-timing-function: ease-in;
   transition-delay: 3s; */
   
   /* Shorthand - property/duration/timing-function/delay */
   transition: all 2s ease-in-out;
}

.box:hover {
   background: red;
   border-radius: 50%;
   height: 300px;
   width: 300px;
}  
```  
 
* And now it goes from a little white school square to a big red circle on hover and it does it very very smoothly all right.

*(75.8) all the transitional properties*...

And again just experiment with it. 

There's no use some other properties in fact all the transitional properties I'm actually going to paste in this file for you guys.  
 
So you have it.  
 
So transitional properties they have to have an identifiable  halfway point.  
 
So things like colors positions with font weight font size max height Max with opacity outline color visibility with word spacing z index  
 
      /* TRANSITIONAL PROPERTIES
      -Properties that have an identifiable halfway point

      background-color 
      background-position 
      border-color 
      border-width 
      border-spacing 
      bottom 
      color
      font-size 
      font-weight 
      height left 
      letter-spacing 
      line-height 
      margin 
      max-height 
      max-width 
      min-height 
      min-width 
      opacity 
      outline-color 
      outline-offset 
      outline-width 
      padding right 
      text-indent 
      text-shadow 
      top 
      vertical-align 
      visibility 
      width 
      word-spacing 
      z-index */

* all these things can be different values it can have a halfway point.  
 
It's not just like it's not binary it's not one or the other. All right. So these are all the properties that you can experiment with. So I'll save that. And you guys will have that for for reference. 

So in the next video I want to look at the transform property which you can use in conjunction with transitions to do some really cool stuff as far as rotating and moving things around the page things like that. All right. So we'll take a look at transform next.
-->