---
recall: header
---

#  28. Link State & Button Styling  
Practice: we need an a tag with the text "Click Here"...  
  
And then a link and a button to style them the same way...
---------------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>

   </style>
</head>

<body>
   <a href="#">Click Here</a>
   <br>
   <br>
   <br>
   <br>
   <a class="btn" href="#">My Link</a>
   <br>
   <br>
   <button class="btn">My Button</button>
</body>
</body>

</html>
---------------------------------------------

*(28.1) change the color of a link*...

we just have a simple link  
 
and it's going to be blue by default with an underline which doesn't look very good.  
 
So I'm going to grab on to that a tag here. Use that as a selector.  
 
I'm going to change the color to a dark gray... 

```
a {
color: #333;
}
```

*(28.2) remove the underline (text-decoration property)*...

and then to remove the underline.  
 
We want to use the text-decoration property  
 
and we want to set that to none. OK.  
 
So the default is underlined.  
 
We're gonna set it to none...

```
a {
color: #333;
text-decoration: none;
}
```

*(28.3) a change when you hover over it (pseudo selector hover)*...

Now if I hover over it you'll see we get a cursor the cursor changes into a pointer.  
 
But the nothing else changes.  
 
So you're probably going to want some kind of a change when you hover over it.  
 
Now to do that we can use the pseudo selector hover  
 
so we can do a colon and then hover and let's change the color to coral...

```
a {
color: #333;
text-decoration: none;
}

a:hover {
color: coral;
}  
```  
 
So now if I go and I hover over it, it changes to coral  
  
* and you can you can add any properties you want here  
 
* you could do something crazy like I would do font size changes to like 40 pixels.


*(28.4) if you want to add the underline on hover (text-decoration: underline;)*  
 
if you want to add the underline on hover you could do...

text-decoration: underline;  
 
```
a:hover {
color: coral;
text-decoration: underline;
}  
```  
 
and I could see that it gets colored and it's underlined.


*(28.5) in addition to hover we have visited (pseudo selector visited)*...

So in addition to hover we have visited 

so we can do a colon visited and let's just do color red...

```
a:visited {
color: red;
}  
```  
 
When you click on it and you visit it it then turns red  
 
and it stays red even if I reload the server it stays red.  
 
And if there were other links if we didn't click on them they'd be they'd be gray dark gray and then you'd click on and they turn red.  
 
So it's kind of weird and I really don't like it and it's not something that I use but it is possible. So I just want to show you that but that comment that out

*(28.6) another state that we have four links is active (pseudo selector active)*...

So if we do a colon active and let's say color red and now...

```
a:active {
color: red;
}  
```  
 
* the active state is going to be when we click.  
 
* So when I click see how it turns red and if I click and hold it also turns red.   
 
So that's the active state in that.  
 
* That's another one that I really don't use but it is it is possible.  
 
So those are the different states for lengths.

*(28.7) style a link as a button*...

I'm going to put a button in here and style the link in the button the same way. 

So it's a button. And let's give both of these a class of btn...

```
<body>
<br>
<a class="btn" href="#">My Link</a>
<br>
<br>
<button class="btn">My Button</button>
</body>
```

* you can see that they're obviously formatted very differently initially but we want to make them the same. 

And I'm going to just make this bigger not that big. OK. So we have a link and a button. Let's let's see I want these on separate lines. They're both inline elements. So I'm going to just put a couple line breaks here just to kind of get them away from each other. 

So buttons obviously are styled differently. They have a border. They have a little bit of padding here the fonts different. 

*(28.8) button styling*...
 
So we have a class of btn and let's go ahead and...

* add a background...

```
.btn {
background: #4c6ca0;
}  
```   
 
And I'm going to use a blue that's like like a Facebook brand blue. So it's going to be #4c6ca0 and let's  
 
* set the color of the text to white...

```
.btn {
background: #4c6ca0;
color: #fff;
}
```
 
OK let's save that and see what we get. All right.  
 
* Now we want to remove the border...

```
.btn {
background: #4c6ca0;
color: #fff;
border: none;

}
```
 
because buttons have borders going to say border.  
 
We could either do border none like that or we could do border zero.  
 
I usually use border none. So save that.  

Now the border is off the actual button. 

Next thing we want to do is is...

* the font size...

```
.btn {
background: #4c6ca0;
color: #fff;
border: none;
font-size: 16px;
}
```
 
OK. We want the font size to be the same for all all links and buttons which we're going to set to 16 pixels.  
 
So we'll save that. Good.  
 
Next thing we'll do is...

* the padding...

```
.btn {
background: #4c6ca0;
color: #fff;
border: none;
font-size: 16px;
padding: 10px 20px;
}
```

So let's say we want to do 10 on the top and bottom and 20 left and right.  
 
Save that.  
 
And let's...

* change the font for the body...

```
body {
font-family: 'Segoe UI', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
}

.btn {
background: #4c6ca0;
color: #fff;
border: none;
font-size: 16px;
padding: 10px 20px;
}  
```  
 
So I'm going to say font family. 'Segoe UI', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif  
 
OK that looks a little better.  
 
Back down to our button. Let's give it...

* a little border radius...

```
body {
font-family: 'Segoe UI', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
}

.btn {
background: #4c6ca0;
color: #fff;
border: none;
font-size: 16px;
padding: 10px 20px;
border-radius: 5px;
}
```  
 
OK. And this is these are all properties that we've learned about. So we're kind of taking all the stuff that we've learned and actually creating an element that that's styled.  
 
OK. So now you can see they have the the rounded corners. Let's let's actually put a line break above the the a tag to just bring it down a little bit. All right.  
 
* So these are these are pretty much identical now so for any button or any link with that we want to style this way we would just add the class btn Globally

*(28.9) adding the pointer*...
 
when we go over the actual button we don't get a cursor. We don't get a pointer  
 
links by default you do get the pointer.  
 
So if we want the pointer to show up either way we can actually set that in the CSS...

* so we can set cursor pointer...

```
/* Button Styling */
.btn {
background: #4c6ca0;
color: #fff;
border: none;
font-size: 16px;
padding: 10px 20px;
border-radius: 5px;
cursor: pointer;
}  
```  
 
and now when I go over the button you can see that it turns into a pointer

*(28.10) adding the hover state*...

So btn and hover...

```
.btn:hover {
color: #f4f4f4;
background: #446190;
}
```
and we're gonna set the color to light gray. That's the text color  
 
and then the background. I'm gonna set that to just a slightly lighter blue than the one we have which is going to be 4 4 6 1 9 0 OK. Or is it darker.  
 
* So that's what you're gonna do a lot in Web sites and especially in user interfaces where you have a lot of links that you want to format as buttons.