# 268. Inserting New HTML Elements via JavaScript

- => Now let's start with adding elements. And for this, let's say we want to write JavaScript code. That adds a new link inside of this first paragraph,

> a new link in this paragraph. `<p>I'm new!</p>`

> For this, I'll go back to app JS, or first of all, I'll import app JS again. I'll change this script source back to app JS.

- => and then in app JS, we now need to do three main things When we want to add an element,

> then we, first of all,

1. have `to create the new element`.

2. Then we have to `get access to the parent element that should hold the new element`

> because we need to insert it somewhere in the Dom. And for that, we need to get access to the element where it should be inserted into.

3. And then we need to `insert the new element into the parent element content.`

- => And these are the three steps we typically execute. When we create an add new elements.

- => 1. Now let's start with creating a new element.

1. How can we create a brand new HTML element in JavaScript? So without touching our HTML code,

> maybe because we want to insert it when a timer expired or when a button was clicked,

> not something we're doing right now, but that could be scenarios where some elements should be added when a certain event occurs

2. and therefore to create a new element in such scenarios. We again use to document our bridge to the Dom.

> And this document does not just have methods for selecting elements in the Dom, but it also has a `createElement()` method for guest what? Creating a new element.

```js
// ADD AN ELEMENT
// 1. Create the new element

document.createElement()
```

3. Now create element wants a parameter and which parameter value could be expected here.

> Well, if you want to create a new HTML element, you need to let the browser know which kind of element it is.

> So the element name is it a paragraph anchor element and image? You need to let the browser know,

- and here I want to create an anchor element. So I will type `'a'` here

```js
// ADD AN ELEMENT
// 1. Create the new element

document.createElement('a')
```

> and that's important. We don't have the angle brackets here. Instead, we just have the element name,

> and we even get this suggestion menu here, which only suggests us valid HTML element names like a, and then this will create a new anchor element.

4. Now very important at this point of time, this element is not part of the page yet. It will not be visible on the page.

> If I save this code, you don't find this anchor element here.

> You only find the old link here, but nowhere in this Dom, do you find the new anchor element

> instead of this just created and for the moment only stored in memory,

> that's why we need steps two and three to then insert it into the Dom in a certain place. where we want to have that new element.

5. And therefore we want to store it in a variable, so that we can use it in these next steps,

- because create element returns a value, the created element, and hence we can store it in a variable, which we could name `newAnchorElement`

```js
// ADD AN ELEMENT
// 1. Create the new element

let newAnchorElement = document.createElement('a')
```

> because that's, what's stored in there a new anchor element.

- => 2. Now we want to get access to the parent element that should hold the new element

1. because that is how you typically insert elements into your Dom. You select the parent, and then you add your new element into that parent.

- Now, here, the parent could be this paragraph.

```js
<p>I'm new!</p>
```

> If we want to insert our anchor elements there

2. So to get access to this paragraph here, we can add another of variable `firstParagraph`.

- And for example, get access with `document.querySelector('p')` selecting by the paragraph tag,

```js
// ADD AN ELEMENT
// 1. Create the new element

let newAnchorElement = document.createElement('a')

// 2. Get access to the parent element that should hold the new element.

let firstParagraph = document.querySelector('p')
```

> and as explained, this will find us the first paragraph It finds on the page.

> And that's exactly the paragraph element I'm interested in.

- So that's one way of selecting this first paragraph on the page.

- => 3. Now I did store this in a variable so that in the next line, we can operate on this saved first paragraph element and then insert our anchor element.

> But I'll actually do that down there because here I'm describing this step.

1. So we get access to our `firstParagraph`, and now we need to find out how we can insert this anchor element into this paragraph.

- And we do that with the `append()` or the `appendChild()` methods. You can basically use either of the two.

- Here, I'll just go for `append()`.

```js
// ADD AN ELEMENT
// 1. Create the new element

let newAnchorElement = document.createElement('a')

// 2. Get access to the parent element that should hold the new element.

let firstParagraph = document.querySelector('p')

// 3. insert the new element into the parent element content

firstParagraph.append()
```

3. And this now wants the new node, either a text note or an HTML element node, which we have here, that should be appended into that paragraph

- so that it should be inserted into this paragraph after all the other existing children in that paragraph. That's what append does.

- There also is `insertBefore()` if you want to it before a certain element,

> but here I want to append it because that's easiest to use.

4. An append now also wants a parameter value, and that is the elements that should be appended.

- So we have the element on which it is appended, (`firstParagraph`) so into which it is inserted and then to append() we pass the element that should be appended in our case, the `newAnchorElement`

```js
// ADD AN ELEMENT
// 1. Create the new element

let newAnchorElement = document.createElement('a')

// 2. Get access to the parent element that should hold the new element.

let firstParagraph = document.querySelector('p')

// 3. insert the new element into the parent element content

firstParagraph.append(newAnchorElement)
```

> and that will now appended into this first paragraph.

> Now, if I saved it, we see no change here,

> but if I expand my paragraph here on the right, I actually do see this new anchor element here inserted after this text note,

> which already was part of the paragraph because of append.

- => As I mentioned, this does add it at the end, but of course it is a useless link. It has no text between the opening and closing tags. And this has no destination either.

1. And I guess that makes sense because how would it have any content? after all We just create an element here, but we say nothing about its text content. (So the part between the opening and closing tags) or its destination,

2. if you want to have such text content and such a destination, we have to configure it here.

- and we can do that in the same way as we did it for existing elements,

> we can set the destination by accessing the href property, and we can set the text content by accessing the text content property.

> that's possible on our brand new element as well, because it is just a default standard element in the end.

3. So here we can access newAnchorElement dot href and set this to any destination of your choice. For example, again, google.com

```js
// ADD AN ELEMENT
// 1. Create the new element

let newAnchorElement = document.createElement('a')
newAnchorElement.href = 'https://google.com'

// 2. Get access to the parent element that should hold the new element.

let firstParagraph = document.querySelector('p')

// 3. insert the new element into the parent element content

firstParagraph.append(newAnchorElement)
```

4. and then sets the text content. So the part between the opening and closing tags by accessing this text content property, and maybe saying this leads to Google like this,

```js
// ADD AN ELEMENT
// 1. Create the new element

let newAnchorElement = document.createElement('a')
newAnchorElement.href = 'https://google.com'
newAnchorElement.textContent = 'This leads to Google!'

// 2. Get access to the parent element that should hold the new element.

let firstParagraph = document.querySelector('p')

// 3. insert the new element into the parent element content

firstParagraph.append(newAnchorElement)
```

> and if I now is save that, now we see this link here and we see it here, and that has the correct address

> and hence clicking, it leads to Google

> and that's how we can insert a new element into our Dom and how we can configure it in detail.
