# 243. The Modulus Operator

- => Now, there also is another mathematical operation which I want to show you and that's the modulus operation, the modulus operator, which is this percentage sign character (%) used as an operator.

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
console.log(10 - 4)
console.log(10 * 4)
console.log(10 / 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
```

1. Now, if we save this and then run this again, we see two as a result for using this modulus operator.

- => And what this modulus operator actually yields as a result is the remainder, the remaining part of performing a division here.

> And with that, I mean that if we divide ten by four, we would get two dot five.

1. But the modulus operator does not return two dot five, but instead it simply has a look at how often this number by which we are dividing fits into this number.

2. And then what would be the remaining number that can't be divided.

> So here of course, 4 fits into 10 two times. So it's two times four, and then we have a remainder of two,

> because two times four is eight and ten minus eight is two

3. and modulus always returns us this remainder.

So if I use it again here, but let's say we now use it with three. What would you expect here as a remainder?

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
console.log(10 - 4)
console.log(10 * 4)
console.log(10 / 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
console.log(10 % 3)
```

> Well, we should get one as a remainder here because three fits into ten three times. And then that gives us nine and ten minus nine is one.

> So expected remainder is one.

> And if I save this indeed we get one here as a result and that's the modulus operator.
