---
recall: header
---

#  29. Navigation Menu Styling  
Practice: ul with a class of side-menu and with 4 li links...
-----------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>

   </style>
</head>

<body>
  <ul class="side-menu">
     <li><a href="#">Home</a></li>     
     <li><a href="#">About</a></li>     
     <li><a href="#">Services</a></li>     
     <li><a href="#">Contact</a></li>     
  </ul>
</body>

</html>
-----------------------------------------

*(29.1) side menu styling*...

First thing I'm going to do is for the body I'm just going to...

* change the font family  
 
to do Arial...

```
body {
font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
```

next thing we want to target the side-menu which is the UL and I want to  
 
*get rid of the bullets*...

```
.side-menu {
list-style: none;
}  
```  
 
because by default you always have these these disk bullets.  
 
* Now you can get rid of these within the ul or within the li with the list style property and we want to set that to none.  

*Next thing I want to do is*... 

* add a border around the whole you ul...

```
.side-menu {
list-style: none;
border: 1px #ddd solid;
}  
```  
 
so we'll say border and let's set it to one pixel.  
 
I want to do a light grey so I'm going to do DDD  
 
and let's do solid save that. Good

Let's do..

*a border radius*...

```
.side-menu {
list-style: none;
border: 1px #ddd solid;
border-radius: 10px;
}
```

just to add a slight curve. We'll do 10 pixels and let's

set a...

*width of 300 pixels*...

```
.side-menu {
list-style: none;
border: 1px #ddd solid;
border-radius: 10px;
width: 300px;
}
```

set the padding...

* now by default unordered list have 40 pixels padding on the left (as you can see that's pushed over.)  
 
So doing padding 20 pixels on all sides is going to overwrite that...

```
.side-menu {
list-style: none;
border: 1px #ddd solid;
border-radius: 10px;
width: 300px;
padding: 20px;
}
```

And then I think yeah I think that's all I want to do for the ul.


*(29.2) list items styling*...

So now we're going to focus on the list items themselves  
 
so slide-side menu list items and we want to...

*set the font size a little bigger*...

```
.side-menu li {
font-size: 18px;
}   
```  
 
* by default at 16 we're gonna set it to 18. 

I also want them spread apart quite a bit

So I'm going to use... 

* line height...

```
.side-menu li {
font-size: 18px;
line-height: 2.4em;
}  
```  
 
and set it to 2.4em

Let's do a border bottom on each one...

```
.side-menu li {
font-size: 18px;
line-height: 2.4em;
border-bottom: dotted 1px #ddd;
}  
```  
 
and I'm going to do dotted for the style  
 
one pixel  
 
and the same color as the the well border.  
 
So you can see that each one now has this this bottom border.


*(29.3) last child pseudo selector*...

we don't need the last border under contact.  
 
So we can actually use a pseudo selector called Last Child to target the last list item...

```
.side-menu li:last-child {
border: none;
}  
```  
 
and now the last link here or the last list item doesn't have a border.


*(29.4) a tag styling (for the color and the underline )*...

So for the the styling of the the actual links  
 
the colour and the underline we have to target the a tags.  
 
* the color to 3 3 3... 
 
* Let's get rid of the underline...

```
.side-menu li a {
color: #333;
text-decoration: none;
}
```

*(29.5) for the hover*...

and for the hover right now it doesn't change at all  

So I want to actually change the color for that  
 
so let's say side-menu, Let's do li a colon hover and  
 
let's change the color to coral...

```
.side-menu li a:hover {
color: coral;
}  
``` 
  
So now when I hover over a link it turns into the Coral color.


*(29.6) navbar styling*...

I'm going to change the class to nav bar  
 
and let's just put a couple line breaks in between these two to kind of just separate them a little bit.  
 
So this is our nav bar  
 
so we want this to go straight across  
 
and we want these links or the list items to float  
 
So we want to target the well which is called nav-bar...

*remove the the bullet So we're gonna say*...

```
.navbar {
list-style: none;
}
```

list-style. None.

*take away all the margin and all the padding*...

```
.navbar {
list-style: none;
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
}
```

*Next thing we want to do is add the background*

I'm going to use that Facebook style blue which is for c 6 C a 0 ...

```
.navbar {
list-style: none;
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
background: #4c6ca0;
}
```

*add board a radius of five pixels*...

```
.navbar {
list-style: none;
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
background: #4c6ca0;
border-radius: 5px;
}
```

*(29.7) floating the list items*...

Now I'm gonna go down here and we're gonna say nav bar list item and we want to float these  
 
because we want them to be side by side.  
 
We don't want them to go down.  
 
We don't want them to be vertical  
 
* let's float all of the list items to the left...

```
.navbar li {
float: left;
}
```

*(29.8) add overflow: auto; (to get the background back)*...

they float now to the left but the background is now gone since we floated it.  
 
It kind of collapse the background.  

So the way that we can fix this...

is go to the nav bar that the parent element  
 
and we want to add in overflow and set that to auto...

``` 
/* Navbar Styling */
.navbar {
list-style: none;
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
background: #4c6ca0;
border-radius: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}  
```  
 
* And now we get the background back.  
 
Because now the background is going to basically pertain to whatever content is inside of it  
 
and you can set this to hidden as well.  
 
If you have some some content that goes outside of the element  
 
and it has a scroll bar  
 
*and lets say you don't want that scroll bar there you can set overflow to hidden*  
 
and I'm sure we'll run into that later.


*(29.9) to style the links*...

let's start to style the links. 

So we want to say...

nav-bar li a And...

* change the color to white...

* You will take away the underline...

* And we want to display this block...

* move this up to the top...

since we display block we we can add some padding  
 
Also space in between all of the links  
 
So let's say for each link we want some...

* padding We want to do 15 on the top and bottom  
 
* and we want to do 20. On the left and right...

```
.navbar li a {
display: block;
color: #fff;
text-decoration: none;
padding: 15px 20px;
}  
```  
 
* And there we go. So it kind of filled out the wrapper that the nav bar.  
 
Well all right. So that looks pretty good.

*(29.10) Let's make it so that when we hover over a link the background changes color.*...

So I'm just going to make it a slightly darker than the blue it already is. 

So let's say...

.navbar li a:hover  
  
 and we're going to do a...

* the background color
  
and that's going to be  4 4 6 1 9 0 which is slightly darker

We can also change...

* the color of the text.

We'll just do like a light gray slight change...

```
.navbar li a:hover {
background-color: #446190;
color: #f4f4f4;
}  
```  
 
So now if we go up and we hover you'll see that it changes the background and it takes up the whole the whole area of the link.

*(29.11) always put the padding on the a tag, not on the list item*...

Now sometimes you might see people put the padding on the list item but that's not really a good idea especially if you want to have the hover state take up the whole thing like this. Otherwise it would just take up like a square around it which doesn't look very good  
 
* and you know you'll see different ways to create nav bars I think that this specific CSS is probably the easiest