# 387. Primitive vs Reference Values

```
Now that's it for functions. Now, I, again, wanna look behind the scenes of JavaScript,

and specifically, I wanna explain why this kind of code worked.
```

- => This is some code which we had in an earlier course section and there we have an array and we stored that array in a constant,

```js

```

- and then I push a new value into that array. And hence,

```js

```

- => we clearly changed the array because we add a new value. Nonetheless, that code worked even though for a constant, you shouldn't be able to change the value stored in the constant.

- Now back then I explained that for arrays and also objects, that's kind of a special scenario and

- => you can change the object and array itself As long as you don't assign a new value to the constant itself with the equal sign.

- I now wanna explore this again and explain in greater detail why it works like this.

1. And for this, I'll add a new file, which I will name behind-the-scenes.js,

- and in there, I'll again, add an array and it's an array of hobbies let's say.

- And in there I have sports and cooking. That's my array here.

```js

```

2. Now I'll do what I did before. And I'll push a new value into that array, for example, reading.

- And if we then console log, hobbies thereafter,

- you will see that if we run this behind the scenes JS file with node, we get this updated array and we don't get any error.

```js

```

- Now that's what we saw before, but why exactly does this work?

- Why does const only care about whether we try to assign a new value with the equal sign, instead of just ensuring in general that the underlying value doesn't change?

Well in the end, because that's how JavaScript works.

But there also is a reason for that.

Arrays and objects, and actually just like functions, arrays are objects under the hood, just special kinds of objects you could say. So therefore,

- => objects, which include arrays are stored in a special kind of memory by JavaScript.

- Now we could dive super deep into that, but it doesn't matter too much right now.

- It's just important to keep in mind that objects and therefore all the arrays are stored in a special kind of memory.

And for example,

- => numbers or any other kind of value like strings or booleans are stored in a different kind of memory because numbers, strings and booleans, and a couple of other values are so-called `primitive values`.

```js

```

- So we have our primitive values, which are numbers, strings and booleans and all couple of other values that don't matter too much right now, for example, undefined, which we saw before is also such a primitive value.

```js

```

- => And then we also have so-called the reference values, or `reference value types`, and that would be objects and since arrays and also functions are objects. Those values are also reference values

```js

```

- => and reference values are stored in a different kind of computer memory than primitive values are.

- => The reason for that is simply that objects tend to be a bit more complex after all they can contain multiple values. Multiple key value pairs, maybe even some methods.

- The primitive values are really primitive. They are simple, it's a single number or a single string, even if it's a longer string, it's still pretty simple.

- And hence primitive values are stored in a more basic kind of computer memory. Objects are stored in a more advanced kind of computer memory. You could say.

- => Now, because objects can and tend to be more complex. They are stored such that unnecessary copies of objects are avoided simply because a simple number doesn't take up a lot of space and memory, a complex object does.

- So we wanna avoid that we are unnecessarily copying objects around.

- Therefore, and that's now the part where this push thing combined with a constant will make more sense.

- => Therefore, when you create an array or an object and you store it in a variable or a constant, what you actually stored there is not the value. So the object or array itself, but `a pointer to that object or array in memory`.

- So the address of that object in memory.

- You don't see that here in the code It looks like the array itself is stored here, but that's actually not what happens. Instead A pointer to the array is stored.

```js

```

- If you store a number on the array or a string, the value itself is stored in the variable or a constant.

```js

```

- => Now, since that's the case, when you push a new value to that array, this value is added to the existing array in memory, but the pointer doesn't change, the address of that array in memory doesn't change.

- So the address of the array doesn't change,

```js

```

and that's why we can do that on a constant, because the constant stored the address, and the address didn't change.

- => So when you call push to add a new value to an array, that actually tells JavaScript to look up that address, go to the actual array in memory and add that value there.

- The value stored in the constant did not change because that value is the address not the array itself.

That's why you can do that.

- On the other hand, if you would try to set hobbies equal to a new array where you have coding and sleeping or something like that

```js

```

- that would not be allowed because here we create a new array, which receives its own new place in memory and which therefore receives and you address.

- And we would therefore try to store and you address and this constant, which is not allowed because it overrides the old value of the constant, which was the old address.

- => So that's why we can push into an array that's stored in a constant because of that reference, whereas there's this primitive value thing.

Now I do have a complete guide on JavaScript, which has 55 hours on its own, where I dive way deeper into JavaScript and where I also explain this concept in greater detail.

We don't need all these details right now, but it's hopefully still clear that objects are simply stored differently in memories, than primitive values like numbers are

and that because of that, and because we only store the address of the object in the constant, instead of the object itself, we can manipulate the underlying object or array without manipulating the constant value itself.

Because the constant value is only that address.

- => This primitive words reference value of thing also has a couple of important implications.

1. Let's say we have an object now person, which has an age value of 32.

```js

```

- Of course, that's a simple object. It's almost only a number,

- but still it is a object and we could have more properties and methods in there. I'm just trying to keep this simple here.

- So let's say we have this person object with potentially more properties,

2. and then we have a function, not a method, but a standalone function here, which maybe gives us the number of adult years. This person has.

- So I'll name us get adult years.

- And I get a person here as a parameter, or let's just name it P here to avoid any confusion with the same name being used.

```js

```

3. And what I do in here is I want to get my adult years by setting p.age, because I expect P to be an object of that shape, equal to p.age minus 18.

```js

```

- And hence, we can also use this shortcut and write it like this.

```js

```

4. And then I return P age, which is now just a number of years above 18.

```js

```

Since we deduct 18 from that age,

5. if we now console log get adult years and we pass the person object that we created here into that,

```js

```

we should get 14 as a result.

- So if we now execute this file, indeed I do get 14 here,

6. but we have a side effect here.

- Watch what happens if I also console log person after calling get adult years.

```js

```

- If I now execute that file, we get 14 as before. But when I output the person here, I get age set equal to 14.

- And you might say sure, because that's what we did here. But on the other hand, we did that on the person we received as a parameter inside of the function, not on this person,

- this person should still have age of 32 because it's that person, which I'm outputting here.

```js

```

7. It's only the parameter value which we had inside of the function that changed. But why did this now also affect this person (object)? Because objects are reference values.

- Keep in mind, what's stored in person in this constant here is just the address of that object

just as we simply stored the address of this array and hobbies before.

- Now, since that's the case, what we actually pass to get adult years when we call it with person is the address.

```js

```

- So P instead of get adult years is just the address of the object.

```js

```

- Now, when we use the dot notation here, we can, of course do that.

```js

```

- And JavaScript will look up the object for that address for us then, and give us the age property off that object.

But

- => when I then changed his age off this object by deducting 18 from it, I do not just change the person object in this function, but this person object as well, because it's the same object.

```js

```

- There is only one object because we're just working with the address here.

I get the address of this person when I called get adult years, hence I'm operating on the exact person object in memory when I deduct 18 year.

And that's why when I console log person there, after we have the updated age here in the terminal, because it's one and the same object,

- => and that's not a bug or an unintended side effect, but instead that's a behavior, which we have on purpose, because as mentioned, objects can become very complex and therefore they are managed such that unnecessary copies are avoided.

Hence, the address is pass around instead of new copies of that object,

- => therefore operations like this can have the unintended side effect of changing the original object in places where we don't wanna do that.

- Now, how can we avoid this unintended side effect here then?

Well,

- => one work around would be that we don't update the person age here, but instead, if we just want to derive the adult years, instead of doing it like this, we can return p.age minus 18.

```js

```

It's minus 18, not minus equal.

- With this line of code, we are not setting a new value for person age. Instead, we are just arriving a value based on the existing age value minus 18,

- but that derived value does not override the age in person, but instead is simply returned as a value by get adult years.

- If we do that and we execute this file, we now have 14 here, but we didn't change the original object. That would be a better way of doing it.

- => If you have a function that for some reason needs to manipulate the object itself, though.

- (So let's say we wanna go back to that original code.)

```js

```

- => Then you can still work around changing the original object by passing in a copy of person into get adult years.

1. And to do that. You just need to create a new object by again, using the curly braces here,

```js

```

2. where you either add all the properties manually. So where you add an age property and set this equal to person dot age

```js

```

- with that, we are creating a brand new object, a brand new place in memory with a brand new separate address.

- And we just populate age based on the values stored in persons age. But that is then a number which we use here. So with that, we're not pointing at the old person object as a whole in this place.

- And therefore, if we now would save that and run this code, it would work without issues. And the original object wasn't changed,

- => but creating objects like this, and manually adding all the properties which the original object has into this new object can be very cumbersome.

- => That's why we can use another operator here, which we already saw before.

- => Between those curly braces, we can use the free dot operator, the spread operator, and spread our person object into this new object.

```js

```

- => Now, we haven't seen this usage of the spread operator before, but the spread operator can indeed be used on arrays or on objects

and on arrays. As you saw before. It pulls out all the individual values to create a list of values.

- => When used on objects, it pulls out all the key value pairs off the object and gives you a list of those key value pairs.

- => And if you do that between curly braces, you create a new object, which gets a list of all the key value pairs of another object.

- => And hence you get a new object in memory with a new address with all the old key value pairs of another object.

- => That's a way of copying an object, of creating a brand new object of the same shape in a new place in memory

- and therefore that's another way of working around that issue in quotes, because it's not really an issue. It's an intended feature of having reference values for objects.

- If we now execute this file here again, we have the unchanged original object whilst also getting the correct adult years.

- With that code that changes the object.

It does not change the original object anymore because we create a brand new object based on the original object here in this line, 21 now.

And again, that is certainly a bit more advanced and can be challenging to grasp or to see why that's helpful.

But we are going to write more and more advanced code over the next sections.

- => And as a web developer in general you will be confronted with more advanced code like this, and therefore y`ou should be aware of this primitive versus reference value thing.`

- => And you also should know `how you can create copies` and work around that reference value limitation, which is sometimes face to avoid unintended side effects

as we had them at the beginning, when we changed the original object, because you very often wanna avoid doing something like that.
