---
recall: header
---

# 114. Variables & Partials  
Practice: in the sandbox main.scss
-------------------------------------------
```
$color: blue;

body {
   background: $color;
}
```
-------------------------------------------

*All right guys so we're going to jump back into our sass-sandbox*...

Now remember we have the the sass script the npm script so I'm going to run `npm run sass`  
 
We're going to want to run that when we're in development

*and then in our index.html let's open that with a live server*...

And it should be blue if you've been following along.  
 
And if I go ahead and into my sass main dot scss and they change this to let's say black  
 
and save it'll it'll reload automatically. All right.  
 
But I want to set that back to blue

*now variables, I mean you can see how they're used*...

We use a money sign to define a variable  
 
and then we simply use a colon for assignment and then whatever the value goes in here. OK.  
 
So it could be a color it could be absolutely anything  
 
just just like with standard css variables.

*So I think what we'll do here is just create a couple different ones*...
 
Let's do `$primary-color:` set to `steelblue;`.  
 
(We're going to just create kind of a simple interface to to work with for the next few lectures.)  
 
So we'll do `$secondary-color:` and we'll set that to `Skyblue;`  
 
and let's do a `$light-color: #f4f4f4;`  
 
and a `$dark-color: #333;`...

```
$primary-color: steelblue;
$secondary-color: Skyblue;
$light-color: #f4f4f4;
$dark-color: #333;

body {
  background: $color;
}
```

*So as far as this css here*...  
 
```
body {
  background: $color;
}  
```  
*for now I'm just going to add a reset*...

So say margin padding 0...

```
$primary-color: steelblue;
$secondary-color: Skyblue;
$light-color: #f4f4f4;
$dark-color: #333;

* {
   margin: 0;
   padding: 0;
}  
```  
 
*and then let's just add some stuff for the body*...

So the `background:`, I'm going to set to the light color  
 
and `color:`, I'm going to set to for now I'll just set to the dark color  
 
and then for `font-family:`, we can do aerial...

```
$primary-color: steelblue;
$secondary-color: Skyblue;
$light-color: #f4f4f4;
$dark-color: #333;

* {
   margin: 0;
   padding: 0;
}

body {
   background: $light-color;
   color: $dark-color;
   font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}  
```  
 
*Actually know what we'll do is we'll take this and we'll put this in a variable called*...

`$font-stack:`, just in case we want to change that.  
 
It's right up here. Easily accessible  
 
so we'll set the font-family: to font-stack. OK.  
 
And then let's just set a `line:height;`...

```
$primary-color: steelblue;
$secondary-color: Skyblue;
$light-color: #f4f4f4;
$dark-color: #333;
$font-stack: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;

* {
   margin: 0;
   padding: 0;
}

body {
   background: $light-color;
   color:$dark-color;
   font-family: $font-stack;
   line-height: 1.5;
}  
```  
 
(It's completely up to you guys what you want to put in variables in your projects and what you don't.)  
 
(I try to keep them a minimal amount. Usually things that are gonna be you know use quite a bit in different places but yes.)  
 
So that's how we can set variables I'll go ahead and save that.

*Now we also have what are called partials*...

So a lot of times the sass you break your css up a lot more.  
 
For instance if you use bootstrap which is a css framework and you use sass every element like the button's the nav bar they all have their own separate partial file with just those styles  
 
so you can really break it out.  
 
Now you can import these partials into a sass file and it's important to mention you can do this with regular css. However it works differently.  
 
You make you you have to keep making extra http requests to the server to fetch these the regular css files  
 
with sass it just kinda takes them and builds them on top of each other. All right.  
 
So it's just much more efficient using sass partials.

*So in our scss I'm going to create a new file and I'm going to call it*...

*_variables.scss*...

So this is a partial where I want to store all my variables.  
 
Now notice I put an underscore the reason for that is this tells the sass compiler that this is a partial and I don't want this file to be compiled.  
 
I don't want a variables.css file in my main in my css folder, we still want to keep just one file here.  
 
However we want to split it up here in in the scss folder

*so I'm going to take all my variables here and cut them out and I'm going to put them into*...

_variables.scss...

```
$primary-color: steelblue;
$secondary-color: Skyblue;
$light-color: #f4f4f4;
$dark-color: #333;
$font-stack: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;  
```  
 
Now if I go back here (in main.scss)...

```
* {
   margin: 0;
   padding: 0;
}

body {
   background: $light-color;
   color:$dark-color;
   font-family: $font-stack;
   line-height: 1.5;
}  
```  
 
and I save we're gonna get some errors down here.(in the terminal)  
 
It's another good thing about sass is it gives you errors  
 
and tells you what's going on  
 
so this is basically telling us we have undefined variables.

*So in order to use the variables in the partial we have to import the files*...

So we're gonna go up here we're gonna say at import and we want to import variables...

```
@import 'variables';

*  {
   margin: 0;
   padding: 0;
}

body {
   background: $light-color;
   color:$dark-color;
   font-family: $font-stack;
   line-height: 1.5;
}  
```  
 
You don't want to put the actual underscore the underline  
 
you also don't have to put dot scss just simply variables. All right.  
 
And then I'll go ahead and save that.  
 
And now that's working again.

*If I go to variables and change light color to red just to show you*...

we'll have to restart sass down here just because we created a new file.  
 
So let's run that.  
 
And now if we save this now it turns to red. All right.  
 
So I'm just gonna put that back and save. Good.

*So you can see we can structure our sass however you want*...

and notice that it didn't create a variables dot css because it is a partial.  
 
If I left that underscore off then it would have compiled this whole file into the css folder  
 
and we don't want that.  
 
We just want this single main dot css.

*And notice that in the main.css is using the light gray that we set in the variable*...

And you never want to touch the css that that gets compiled from sass. All right.

