# 295. The "for-of" Loop (for Arrays)

- => Now, besides this for-let loop, we also have a `for-of loop`. And even though it sounds familiar, it works totally differently.

- => Let's say we have an array of users, and this is simply an array with a couple of names in there like this.

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  console.log(i)
}

const users = ['Max', 'Anna', 'Joel']
```

- => And now we want to do something with every user, in a real website who might want to send an email to the user, or just show that user on some dashboard screen. Here I'll just log these usernames.

Now, of course I can console log users. And if I do that, it will work,

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  console.log(i)
}

const users = ['Max', 'Anna', 'Joel']

console.log(users)
```

but it will simply log the overall array.

That's not what I want here, instead

I just want to log the individual names because again,we might be doing more useful things here and send emails to the individual users instead.

- => And that's where a for-of loop can help us.

- => We again start with the 'for' keyword, and then we again have brackets and curly braces.

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  console.log(i)
}

const users = ['Max', 'Anna', 'Joel']

for () {

}
```

- => But now between those parentheses here, we don't write code as we did it up here, but instead we create a helper constant, user could be the name we want here.

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  console.log(i)
}

const users = ['Max', 'Anna', 'Joel']

for (const user) {

}

```

- => The name is up to you. `It should describe your individual array elements` though. And since here I have users an individual element could be named user.

- => And then we at the 'of' keyword there after and then we point at the array for which we want to loop. In my case to 'users' array.

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  console.log(i)
}

const users = ['Max', 'Anna', 'Joel']

for (const user of users) {
}
```

- => And with that, we loop through all the elements in 'users' and we get access to the individual elements inside of that looping code under this helper constant.

And here it's a constant and not a variable because it's basically a brand new variable that will be created for every iteration whereas in the first kind of for loop, it was the existing variable that was changed.

It's a slight difference. That's why we can use the 'const' keyword here. Of course you could also use 'let' alternatively,

but I'll use const since that is what you'll see more often out there in the wild.

- => And then here I can console log user, so not 'users', but 'user' to log to individual elements for every iteration.

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  console.log(i)
}

const users = ['Max', 'Anna', 'Joel']

for (const user of users) {
  console.log(user)
}
```

Now, with that, if I save that, you see here at the bottom, Max, Anna, and Joel printed out as free individual elements

because this for-of loop now executed the code in here three times, once for every element. And it gave us access to every element.
