---
recall: header
---

# 43. Getting Started With Media Queries  
Practice: We need 5 divs with ids to practice different media queries and I'm going to add some core styles for the body...
--------------------------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      body {
         font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
         background: gray;
         color: white;
         text-align: center;
         padding-top: 100px;
      }
   </style>
</head>

<body>
<div id="widescreen"><h1>Widescreen</h1></div>
<div id="normal"><h1>Normal</h1></div>
<div id="tablet"><h1>Tablet</h1></div>
<div id="smartphone"><h1>Smartphone</h1></div>
<div id="landscape"><h1>Landscape</h1></div>
</body>

</html>
-------------------------------------------------------

*(43.1) This is more to get you familiar with how they work in the syntax.*...

* We can do media queries for both width and height.


*(43.2) as far as testing your your media queries and breakpoints*...

*you can resize the browser.*...

OK that'll work. It'll update in real time. 

Another way to do it and a way that you should definitely do it  
 
even if you test to begin with with the browser you should always check them out...

*with the chrome tools*  
 
so I'm going to open up my chrome tools and hit this icon here. This is 
 
*the device toolbar*  
 
and this actually allows you to test your web page on different devices as you can see the iPhone X we have iPhone 6 7 8 plus 6 7 8. Even the 5 which you can see is much smaller pixel to excel pixel to galaxy and then we also have the iPad so you can test for tablets before the iPad Pro which is basically the same with us as a laptop would be.  
 
* you're going to see some things here that you won't notice if you just use the browser because of the height in the browser you have a much bigger height than you do on actual smart so you don't get a real look at what it looks like on a smartphone.

*(43.3) Smartphones media query* max width 500px...

I'm going to add my first media query.  
 
So we do this by doing at media some parentheses  
 
and then inside here we can put a max width or min with or max height or min height  
 
but I'm going to do @media(max-width)  
 
and set it to 500 pixels and then we open up some curly braces.  
 
(Now another thing I want to show you here in the device is it shows you the width and the height. OK so an iPhone X has a width of 375 pixels for Levin galaxy is 360.)  
 
* Notice that they're all under 500. So that's usually what I use for smartphones.  
 
and let's take the body and let's change the background to red...  
 
By default it's gray.  
 
I should say the core style or the default styling is gray...

```
/* Smartphones */
@media (max-width: 500px) {
body {
background: red;
}
```

But as you can see when we test on an iPhone X 

or any of these devices it's red 

and I can close this up and just drag the browser make it smaller once it hits 500 it turns red 
 
* And you can also do a min-with if I do min with it's going to do the opposite.  
 
It's going to be red until I hit 500 pixels.  
 
Now when you do mobile first design usually you'll do all your base styling as as you would on a mobile screen  
 
and then you add your min width for larger screens.  
 
OK but we'll get into that later  
 
but I'm going to put this back to Max.  

*only display the heading for that screen size*...

So the other thing that I want to do is only display the heading for that screen size.  
 
So by default I'm going to set each one all age ones to have a display of none. OK.  
 
Which will make them just disappear completely.  

So we'll save that and then down in our media query for our smartphone for 500 pixels or less.  
 
I'm going to target the I.D. smartphone each one and I'm going to set the display to its normal value of block...

```
/* Smartphones */
@media(max-width: 500px) {
body {
background: red;
}

#smartphone h1 {
display: block;
}
}  
```  
 
And there we go.  
 
So now it only displays when it's 500 pixels or less. OK.

*(43.4) tablet media query*...

Now let's add another one for tablet.  
 
I'm going to just copy this whole thing here  
 
and let's add tablets and  
 
* usually a tablet is around 768. That's a common break point for tablets.  
 
I'm going to set this to blue and let's grab the I.D. of tablet and display the H1. All right...

```
/* Tablet */
@media(max-width: 768px) {
body {
background: blue;
}

#tablet h1 {
display: block;
}
}  
```  
 
* Now notice that even though we're under five hundred pixels this is still applying  
 
* because always said was the max width of 768.  
 
* And that includes five hundred and less. So anything under 768.  
 
* So if we wanted to target everything under 768 we could just do this.  

There's not even any need for this but...


*(43.5) add min-width if we want a different style for smartphones and then something different for tablets*...

if we want a different style for smartphones  
 
and then something different for tablets  
 
what we would do is a mini-width.  
 
Next we're going to go right here.  
 
Open up another set of curly braces and say men with do 5 0 1 pixels and a max width of 768...

```
/* Tablet */
@media(min-width: 501px) and (max-width: 768px) {
body {
background: blue;
}

#tablet h1 {
display: block;
}
}  
```  
 
So if I save that now when I get down to 500 notice it goes back to red it just shows the styling because this media query is 5 0 1 to 5 2. I'm sorry 768. OK.

*(43.6) you might sometimes see this @media only screen and (max-width: 500px) {*...

Another thing I want to mention is that you might you might sometimes see this '@media only screen and' and then the max or min with or whatever.  
 
Now the reason for this is because screen is one of the media types.  
 
There's screen, print, and I believe speech.  
 
And sometimes you'll see this and it just means this only applies to screens.  
 
* I usually leave this off because the default is all so it will show for it doesn't matter the media type  
  
but if you see this it just means that it's only four screens all right so

*(43.7) normal size media query (desktop)*...

let's move on here let's do that. The normal size.  
 
So going to copy this and paste that in  
 
and let's change the values here. So this ends at 768.  

So let's do a min width of seven sixty nine  
 
and we'll go to let's say twelve hundred.  
 
I'm going to set the green are the background to green  
 
and then I only want the normal I.D. H1 to show so I'll save that...

```
/* Normal */
@media(min-width: 769px) and (max-width: 1200px) {
body {
background: green;
}

#normal h1 {
display: block;
}
}  
```  
 
* And now from seven sixty nine to twelve hundred we get that green normal we hit 768 tablet we had 500 Smartphone. All right.

*(43.8) widescreen media query*...

And then finally let's do the widescreen.  
 
So I'm just gonna paste this in again and we'll see a wide screen and four wide screen.  
 
I'm just gonna do anything above twelve hundred or twelve twelve hundred  
 
and one I should say. So we don't need a range.  

We can simply do men with 12 or 1 and we can just get rid of this and let's make it black and the I.D. of wide screen...

```
/* Widescreen */
@media(min-width: 1201px) {
body {
background: black;
}

#widescreen h1 {
display: block;
}
}  
```  
 
So now once they hit twelve or one we get wide screen and it's gonna it's gonna stay like that as large as I go. OK. So as you can see we're just hitting breakpoints and then those styles are kicking in.  
 
* this is the syntax for media queries.


*(43.9) let's test this out in the device toolbar*...

So I'm to open up my chrome tools and hit the device toolbar.   
 
So any smartphone should just be read because they're all under 500 pixels wide.  
 
And then if I go to the iPad we get the tablet as you can see it's seven sixty eight  
 
and then I Pad Pro is gonna be normal because it's 10 24 OK in an iPad Pro is pretty wide it's it's pretty much like a laptop OK.


*(43.10) media query for landscape*...

Now for landscape what we would do is probably set a height because actually let me make this a little bigger because if we hit this icon here let's go back to iPhone and we'll hit that and it shows this landscape and the width is 812.  
 
So it falls into normal but let's add another one here just copy this and say you'll change this landscape  
 
let's do a max height of 500 pixels and we're gonna change the background to Orange and let's say landscape H1 and we'll save that...

```
/* Landscape */
@media(max-height: 500px) {
body {
background: orange;
}

#landscape h1 {
display: block;
}
}  
```  
 
And now notice that it's orange we get in landscape  
 
it's also going to show normal because of the width. OK.  
 
It's it's also whatever we have for the width still applies. We're just adding some for the height as well. All right.  
 
And if this is confusing don't worry about it just like anything else that that may have confused you we're going to we're going gonna touch on all of this stuff as we move along. So you're going to. It's going to make sense it's going to click OK.

*(43.11) we can actually have separate style sheets as our media query*...

So the last thing I want to show you is that we can actually have separate style sheets as our media query  
 
* if you don't want to embed the media query into a style sheet. You can have a separate one  
 
so just for an example.  
 
I'm going to create a new file.  
 
I'm actually going to delete this after which is to show you.  

We could do like let's say a style she called Mobile dot CSX and go up to the head and just like we add any style sheet we could use a link tag Rel style sheet and we can point to mobile dot CSX. Now right now it'll always load that style sheet but we can actually add a media attribute and in our media attribute we're gonna say screen and and then open some parentheses and let's do a max width of 768 pixels...

```
<link rel="stylesheet" media="screen and (max-width: 768px)" href="mobile.css">  
```  
 
* Now what this is going to do is it's only going to load this style sheet if the screen is 768 or less.  
 
So basically a tablet or less.  
 
Otherwise it's not going to load.  
 
Now you always want to have this after your main style sheet.
