# 398. Module Summary

Now that's it for this section.

And this was definitely not a small or easy section.

We had lots of new concepts

and it's very likely that you're not 100% on board

with all those concepts yet.

That's totally normal though.

These are a lot of concepts

and pretty advanced concepts too,

but I wanted to get them out of the way,

because we'll see them throughout the rest of the course.

And therefore, of course, as we start using them there,

also in more realistic examples,

things also will become clearer.

It was important to introduce them now though,

so that later sections can focus on different parts

and you have at least seen those concepts already then.

We did learn about functions

and default parameter values,

hence turning these parameters into optional parameters.

And we learned about the rest parameter operator here,

the three dots that allows us to past in a list of values

instead of a fixed number of values or an array.

We also learned about the spread operator,

which is the opposite,

which allows us to pull out all the values off an array

or object in places where a list of values

or a list of key value pairs is needed

instead of the full array or object.

These were some things we learned about functions.

We also learned about that template literal syntax,

which allows us to construct strings with placeholders.

And hence it gives us a way of constructing longer strings

with dynamic values in a more convenient way

than having to concatenate strings and values

with the plus operator.

Now, we also did dive into some behind the scenes things

thereafter.

We had a look at reference where this primitive values

and that objects are reference values,

and that those values are stored

in a special kind of memory,

which actually leads JavaScript to just store

the address of that space

and memory in constants or variables

instead of the value as a whole.

That's why we can edit such values stored in a constant

without facing an error,

because we're not actually editing

the value in the constant,

but the value stored in memory.

The value in the constant is just the address of that value

and memory, and that address didn't change.

We had a look at a couple of related concepts

and you also learned that you can again use

the spread operator to still create copies of objects

or erase with ease in case you need to fully copy an object

or array,

and you don't want to work with that existing object

or array in memory, for example,

to avoid unwanted mutation of that object or array,

as we had it in this example.

We also explored errors.

Error handling is something which matters.

And with try-catch you can handle errors

in a fine grained way

where you have full control over which code might fail

and how you want to handle that failure.

We also had a closer look at objects again.

We explored classes

which allow us to create our own blueprints

for our own objects,

where we can use the constructor to tell JavaScript

how objects based on that class should be created

and which properties they should have.

And we learned that we can add methods.

Here that this keyword is also important

because this keyword gives us access to the object

that's about to be created,

or that was created in case of methods.

And then we can instantiate classes,

create concrete objects based on the blueprint

by executing the class as a function

and adding the new keyword.

Last but not least, but definitely also very important,

we had a look at async code.

And you've learned that some operations

simply can take a bit longer

and therefore you might want to perform them

in an asynchronous way,

either with help of a callback function

or with help of a promise.

And when working with promises,

you can also turn your overall function

that wraps the async code into an async function,

and then use the await keyword

to go back to more synchronous looking code,

even though it's transformed under the hood,

as you learned.

We also had a look at how error handling could work there,

but also as mentioned before,

we are going to see async code

and promises in action again later in the course,

also once we start working with databases.

And, therefore, we had plenty of new content here,

definitely also check out the written guide and cheat sheet,

which you'll find attached to the last lecture

of this course section.

But definitely also don't feel overwhelmed,

instead we're going to see all these concepts

in action again later in the course.
