---
recall: header
---

# 31. Positioning

> Practice: as far as the html goes I JUST WANT TO HAVE FIVE BOXES AND WE'RE GONNA format them to just be square colored boxes and we want to. We want to position them in certain ways so each one will have its own I.D.

## But I also want them to have a class of box because that's what we're going to use to create the height and width...

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>
      .box {
         width: 100px;
         height: 100px;
      }

      #box-1 {
         background: red;
      }
      #box-2 {
         background: yellow;
      }
      #box-3 {
         background: green;
      }
      #box-4 {
         background: blue;
      }
      #box-5 {
         background: orange;
      }

   </style>
</head>

<body>
  <div id="box-1" class="box"></div>
  <div id="box-2" class="box"></div>
  <div id="box-3" class="box"></div>
  <div id="box-4" class="box"></div>
  <div id="box-5" class="box"></div>
</body>

## </html>

_(31.1) everything by default has a position of static_...

If I do a position position here and say static that's actually the default. I'll save it...

```
#box-1 {
position: static;
background: red;
}
```

- It's the same.

_(31.2) all the possible values of position_...

Now I just want to show you a quick screen right here that has all the value the possible values of position so...

_static_

- is the default And it's not affected by top, bottom, left, and right properties

in CSX we have properties

where we can let's say for top we want to move it from the top a certain amount of pixels or percentage.

We can do that but we can't do it if it's position static.

_relative_...

- we can use these values top, bottom, left, right

- And it'll cause them to be moved from their normal position.

whatever its normal position would be on the page if we can move it from that

now absolute is different because...

_absolute_...

- Positions relative to its parent element that is positioned "relative"

it pertains to its parent element.

_fixed_...

- is actually position relative to the viewport

meaning the whole browser window

so it'll stay at that that place even if you scroll down or whatever

_sticky_...

- position based on scroll position

is similar to fixed except you can stick it in a certain position like at the top

When you're scrolling down if you want it to stay at the top you could use sticky

and this is used a lot for menus where you always want the menu to show at the top no matter what.

_(31.3) static_...

So it's I'm going to give you examples of all of these

So we already looked at static That's just the default...

```
#box-1 {
position: static;
background: red;
}
```

_(31.4) relative_...

Let's change this to relative...

and since we we could we set it to relative

We can actually use Top Right Bottom in left properties

So let's say we want to push this let's say 50 pixels from the top

and from the left we want to push it 50 pixels...

```
#box-1 {
position: relative;
top: 50px;
left: 50px;
background: red;
}
```

And notice the red box has now moved 50 down and 50 over from the left. OK.

_(31.5) absolute_...

- now absolute like I said has to do with inside of a parent.

So Box 2 and 3 I'm going to make absolute

but I'm going to put them within a container class or div with the class of container

(And if there is no relative parent it's going to use just the body or the basically the whole browser window here.)

So let's do that now two and three which are the yellow and green are within the container.

So up here (just so we can see the limits of the container.)

Let's give it a width of 500 pixels

a height of 500 pixels

a background of dark gray.

And let's position it relative

because remember the parent has to be position relative...

```
.container {
position: relative;
width: 500px;
height: 500px;
background: #333;
}
```

- And I'll save that. And there we go. There's the container.

Now box one and box two are within the container.

_But let's say we want to move it_...

want to move this one a hundred pixels down from the top

and one hundred pixels over from the left.

So if I go to Box 2 and I say...

top 100 pixels and left 100 pixels save

- it it doesn't move because it's still static right now

- since I wanted to move 100 pixels down and out within its container I want to set it to...

- absolute.

So let's say position absolute and save...

```
#box-2 {
position: absolute;
top: 100px;
left: 100px;
background: yellow;
}
```

- And now you can see that it moved down a hundred pixels and over one hundred pixels within its container.

Now box 3 is also within the container...

So let's just copy this and let's do this time we'll do from the bottom right and save...

```
#box-3 {
position: absolute;
bottom: 100px;
right: 100px;
background: green;
}
```

- And now within its container it went from the bottom up a hundred pixels and from the right over one hundred pixels.

\*So you can precisely put things wherever you want within you know position to absolute

\*within a relative container.

_(31.6) the z index property_...

I just want to mention something and that's the z index property.

Notice how Box 1 is behind the container. So if I wanted to move this in front I could use the z index property.

So let's go to Box 1 which is our red box and let's add Z dash index and if we do just a value of 1 that should do it. Let's save...

```
#box-1 {
position: relative;
top: 50px;
left: 50px;
z-index: 1;
background: red;
}
```

And now it's in front.

- So the higher the z index then the closer to you it's going to be.

If I were to add to the container which is the big box if I add a z index here of 2 and save it goes in front of the red box because obviously 2 is higher than 1

and you can also have negative values as well.

Let's get rid of that we'll keep the red box upfront. But I just wanted to mention that about z index.

_(31.7) fixed_...

let's do fixed so box four let's say we want position to be fixed...

```
#box-4 {
position: fixed;
background: blue;
}
```

Now watch what happens when I save.

Watch what happens to the blue box

or actually the orange box it seems to disappear

but it didn't disappear

what happened is it's it's under the blue box because

- when it's fixed it's it's pulled out of the flow of the document and put right on top of other content

Now if I were to scroll down you would see the orange box because the blue would just stay where it is.

So let me give you an example of that We don't have enough content to scroll but if I just add a crazy height to the body we'll be able to scroll down.

So let's just give the body height of like 4000 pixels and save.

Now you can see we have a scroll bar

and as I scroll see the blue box just stays in a fixed position.

So that's what that's going to do.

So if you have a Web page where maybe you have like an ad or something that's really important that you always want to stay on top.

_You would use fixed for that_

_(31.8) sticky_...

And the next one I want to look at is sticky which

- is similar but you can actually have it stick in a certain spot

like let's say the orange box here

we want it to stick to the top when we scroll down.

So for box five let's say position sticky

and this is used a lot for menus because a lot of times you want the navigation menu to stay at the top no matter where you are on the site

now where we wanted to stick is top zero...

```
#box-5 {
position: sticky;
top: 0;
background: orange;
}
```

And now you'll see the orange one is on top of the blue

and we can change that with the z index.

But let's scroll up and

- watch when I hit the top with the orange box it stays there. I keep scrolling and it still stays at the top.

- So it's really good from four top menus or navigation menus.

_All right and just to show you box five is orange_...

\*If I were to give this a z index let's actually give this a negative z index so

\*negative 1 and save...

```
#box-5 {
position: sticky;
top: 0;
background: orange;
z-index: -1;
}
```

- and you can see it goes behind the blue.

So hopefully this gives you some insight on the different values for position as well as how z index works.

_(31.9) Now positioning like this isn't used that much in in modern web sites_...

because responsiveness and having your your layout look good on mobile devices is very important and when you do things in this way it's not very mobile friendly.

Unless it's like part of a very small area and you have stuff positioned absolute within there that's still going to look good on a mobile device.
