<!-- ---
recall: header
--- -->

# 113. Koala Sass Compiler - GUI Alternative  

*All right guys so this is kind of an aside from the rest of the section*...

I just want to give you a different option if you don't want to deal with node sass  
 
and deal with the terminal  
 
although I think it's easier than using this. This graphical program  
 
but nevertheless I want to give you the the options so if you go to koala dash app dot com you can download this program it's for Windows as well as MAC  
 
and it's a goofy program and it compiles both sass and less

*So if you download install it just like any other piece of software*...

and then open it up it'll look like this. OK.

*Now I also have vscode open and I just created a `test` folder*...

just to give you an example here.  
 
And I'm going to structure this just like we did in the last video.  
 
We'll have an `SCSS folder` (where we'll have any SASs)  
 
and then we'll create another folder called `dist`  
 
an inside dist, We're gonna have a folder called `css`  
 
and most likely most likely an `index.html` like that. All right.

*Now in koala I'm going to say plus sign to add a project*...
 
and I'm going to choose "from desktop" `test` OK

*we don't have any SASS files so let's create in SCSS*...

I'm going to create a new file called `main.scss`  
 
refresh that.  
 
So now it sees that we have a SASS file

*now by default when it compiles it'll put the CSS file in the same folder In SCSS*...

we want to direct it to go into the css in the dist.  
 
So we'll go to "set output path"  
 
and we're gonna choose dist > css OK.

*"Please select the css file"*...

OK so we have to actually create the css file (inside the css folder)  
 
so we'll do main.css like that  
 
and then let's do it again "set output path" to dist > CSX > main.css "replace". OK.

*So now this (koala) is running* ...

we can go ahead and minimize this.

*Now when I write some sass in this main.scss*...
 
I'll do the same thing I'll do color red body and let's do background. So that's a color...
```
$color: red;

body {
   background: $color;
}  
```  
 
And when I save that if I look in the main.css you'll see that a compiled  
 
It also creates a source map I'm not going to go over that but you'll see there's a main dot CSX a map as well.  
 
we'll go to our index.htmlL and let's include that css  
 
So we're going to go "css/main.css" All right...

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Sass Sandbox</title>
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css">
</head>
<body>
   <h1>Sass Sandbox</h1>
</body>
</html>
```

*So now if I run live server from here*...

this is the test folder where we use koala  
 
and if I go to my SASS and they change this to let's say green  
 
and save you'll see that it changes. All right.  
 
So if you're more comfortable using koala, using the graphical interface  
 
then by all means you can do that.  
 
However we're going to stick to nodes SASS. All right.  
 
So just wanted to kind of add this as an aside to to give you another option.

*Also if you want to look into extensions*...

if we search for SASS and V.S. code  
 
this right here "live SASS compiler"  
 
will actually compile your SASS for you as well.  
 
If you want to look into that there's just there's so many different programs you can use really.  
 
So whatever works for you. All right.

