# 219. What You Will Learn In this Module

```
So now that we know what JavaScript is and why we might wanna consider using it,
```

- => let's understand which core syntax and features we have to know in order to work with it.

```
And here, I'm saying core syntax and features, I wanna highlight that
```

> if I say syntax, I basically mean the "Grammar" of a certain programming language.

> HTML has a syntax, CSS has a syntax, and JavaScript also has a certain syntax.

- => Syntax simply is a term which we developers use to describe the rules you have to follow when writing code in a certain programming language.

```
For example, when it comes to writing the CSS code,

the syntax dictates that you have to put your rules

between those curly braces,

that you have to have a colon after your property name

before the value that you have to have such a semicolon

at the end of the line. That's the CSS syntax.
```

> And for JavaScript, you also have certain rules, which you, of course, are going to learn throughout the discourse section an throughout the discourse in general.

- => Now, when it comes to the core features you have to know, we're going to learn about them step by step

> and we're going to build up on what we learned, step by step.

- => And we are going to start with values and variables,

> a core feature, which you need for any JavaScript code you write and you'll learn what values are, and what variables are.

- => We are going to have a look at arrays and objects,

> and you will learn what that is and why you need it.

- => We are going to learn about functions,

> a very important feature that allows us to execute code on the Mod, you could say.

- => We are going to learn about working with the DOM,

> and here, I'm not talking about how we work with Vin Diesel, but instead, I'll explain what the DOM is and what working with it means in JavaScript.

- => And we are also going to dive into control structures

> to execute different code based on different circumstances and conditions.

```
Now that all probably won't tell you anything right now,

and that's totally fine because this course and

discourse section specifically is there to teach you

about these things.

And therefore let's now dive in and let's learn JavaScript

step by step.
```
