# 242. Math Operations & Working With Different Kinds Of Values

```
Now to conclude his introduction into JavaScript. I want to dive back into operations. We can perform with our values,

like to subtraction we're doing here. And specifically,

I also want to explore some operations We can perform on strings as these will be operations, you will be doing frequently in Java script

and as this will be operations. We will also need throughout, this course.
```

- => Now let's come back to mathematical operations in general,

1. and actually, therefore I'll add a brand new JavaScript file operations.js, just so did we have one file that contains a summary of all those operations basically.

> And now in index HTML I'll quickly import or link to this operations JS file.

- => Now, I did, of course already talk about the general math operations you can perform.

1. And that of course would be if I just console log a bunch of results that you can add values with the plus operator

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
```

3. that you can subtract values with the minus operator.

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
console.log(10 - 4)
```

4. That you can also multiply values with this asterisk multiplication operator

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
console.log(10 - 4)
console.log(10 * 4)
```

5. and that you can divide values with this forward slash

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
console.log(10 - 4)
console.log(10 * 4)
console.log(10 / 4)
```

> and of course, we could be storing all those results here in extra variables,

> or we just direct the output them with help of console log here. If we never need the results anywhere else in this code, as it's the case here since does this just there for demo purposes, that's why I'm not using any variables here.

> So if an our save that, we can see this output here in the console. And of course we see the expected results here,

> and please note that the last result here actually has a decimal place. It's two dot five, not just two or three.

> And that of course is probably what you expected,

- => but it is worth pointing out that these two different kinds
  of numbers, which be see here numbers without decimal places and numbers with decimal places technically have different names.

> They are kind of different types of values. Even though they're both numbers,

- => we call numbers without decimal places, integer numbers,

- => and we call numbers with decimal places, floating point numbers or short floats.

> We call these numbers floats.

> And that's just something you can keep in the back of your mind since that is sometimes important. And you will sometimes hear these terms.
