---
recall: header
---

# 67. Targeted Selectors  
Practice:
------------------------------------------
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>

   </style>
</head>
<body>
   <div>
      <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.</p>
      
      <ul>
         <li>item 1</li>
         <li><p> item 2</p></li>
         <li>item 3</li>
      </ul>
      
      <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.</p>
      
   </div> 
   
      <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.</p>

</body>
</html>
```
-------------------------------------------

*(67.1) descendent selector*...

 (div p {})  
 
So up in the style here if we do div P like this you guys you know what this is going to do it's going to look for any paragraph that's inside of a div. Right.  
 
So I'm just gonna put a background of let's do grey let's save it let's open this up with live server and I'm actually going to just make this a little bigger so you guys can see it better...

```
div p {
background: #ddd;
}  
```  
 
So what's going on here is every paragraph within a div is has the grey background if we look at the markup here this paragraph is in the div this paragraph is in the div this one is in the div this last one is not. So that doesn't pertain to this selector.

*(67.2) Direct child*...

(if div is a direct parent of p)  
 
Now what if we wanted to select a paragraph that was directly in a div it was a direct child of the div.  
 
So to do that we just put a comment here we'll say direct child to do that what we could do is just add a greater than sine angle bracket here and this is...

```
/* if div is a direct parent of p */
div > p {
background-color: #ddd;
}  
```  
 
* this is saying that we only want a paragraph that is a direct child of a div.  
 
So let's save that and you can see that the middle one here this disappeared because it no longer pertains to that because this item. I'm sorry this paragraph it's direct parent is a list item. OK.  
 
it's a list item  
 
* even though it is in this div it's not the direct parent K the direct parent is a list item  
 
then that parent is the well and then that parent is div.

*(67.3) directly after an element*...

(if p is right after div)  
 
* So at the same time we can also select something that is directly after an element.  
 
* So something that's on the same level.  
 
So let's say directly after and I'm going to say div and I'm going to use a plus sign here and then a P and let's change the background to we'll just do da s we'll do dark grey and then we'll do color white. So let's save that...

```
/* if p is right after div */
div + p {
background: #333;
color: #fff;
}  
```  
 
and see what happens.  
 
* So the last paragraph is affected by this selector right here and the reason for that is we're saying we want a paragraph where the element right before it is a div.  
 
Now you might be saying what about this one there's a div here. This is a child of the div K. So this paragraph is inside the div which makes it a child.  
 
* This one is a sibling of this div they're on the same level.  
 
This is not inside of it. So that's what this pertains to is basically a sibling. OK.  
 
So the next sibling. All right.  
 
Now the next thing I want to show you is how we can add attributes as selectors.  
 
So I'm actually going to add some more markup down here under the paragraph I'm going to put a couple links. So this this will just go nowhere.  
 
I'm just gonna say page one we'll just pretend it's a link to another page on the site. So page two and then  
 
let's do another link for this one let's have a go to Google and for the text will say Google. All right.  
 
Now usually when you have an external link you're gonna have a target attribute and set it to underscore blank and that will take it off the you know it won't redirect you within the same tab it'll open up another tab.

*(67.4) add attributes as selectors (Target attribute)*...

* And if we wanted to style this based on it having a target attribute we could do that.  
 
So let's go up here and let's say by attribute  
 
so I could say the I want all the tags that have an attribute of target and then I want to add a background of let's do red the color white. OK so if I save that...

```
a[target] {
background: #ff0000;
color: #fff;
}  
``` 
 
* notice said the google link now has a red background and that's because it has a target on it.  
 
Now if I were to add a target to this one here let's say target this time let's set it to underscore self will save and it gets a red background because it does have the target.

*(67.5) reference the actual value (Target attribute)*...

Now in addition to this you can also you can reference the actual value. So if we want to say where the target is equal to underscore blank and say...

```
a[target='_blank'] {
background: #ff0000;
color: #fff;
}  
```  
 
you'll see that now go it Google is the only one that has the red background because we're saying the target has to be blank where this one is actually self. OK.

*(67.6) specific attribute values*...

And I'm going to give you a more practical example of this so I'm just going to put that back like that and then let's go down here and let's say a specific attribute values  
 
* and where I use this the most is with forms so or form inputs I should say  
 
so I want to just add some line breaks here and let's add a form and we're just going to have a couple inputs.  
 
So let's say input with the type of text  
 
and we don't need a name or idea we'll put a place holder  
 
and just say name  
 
and then I'll copy this down two more times this one will be an email I'm also going to change the type to email which is similar to a text field.  
 
This one is actually going to be a submits I want this to be a button to submit. So it's not going have a place holder however it needs a value because that's the text that is displayed. All right. So we'll save that and we get this right here.

*So let's say I want the name and the email input to go to be 100 percent with and add a little bit of margin.*...

So if I were to just do input and say with 100 percent and then say margin bottom we'll do like 0 5 pixels. And if we were to save that...

```
input {
width: 100%;
margin-bottom: 5px;
}  
```  
 
* you'll see that all of these. This is gonna pertain to all of them because they're all inputs.  
 
They have different types but they're all inputs.

*So we may want to target certain types and in this case I want the name field in the email to have the hundred percent but not the button itself.*...

So what I would do and this is something that I is pretty common for me is I would say input where the type equals text. If I do that only the name extends because it has a type of text but then we could put a comma we could say input where the type where the type equals email and save...

```
input[type='text'],
input[type='email'] {
width: 100%;
margin-bottom: 5px;
}  
```  
 
And now both the name in the email are 100 percent and a lot of cases if it's like a contact form you'd also do the you know the text area as well  
 
* but yeah. So that's how we can target specific values of attributes.  
 
*OK. And it doesn't have to be input with the type. It can be any attribute at all.*  
 
Why did that. Why did that change what did I do wrong here. There you go. All right. So I mean these are just some some other other methods to to target certain things in the DOM to style.  
 
* You're not going to be using these as much obviously but you may run into a situation where they could help you out.  
 
All right. So in the next video we're going to talk about a special pseudo selector or a pseudo class called End Child.
-->