# 291. More on Boolean Values

```
Now we understand how if statements work and how we can use comparison operators to check different conditions.


There is a little extension, some extra knowledge you should have about Boolean values and if statements though, which I want to dive in now.

And for this, I switched back to including the conditional code JS file here in the index HTML file.
```

- => And in this conditional-code.js file, I now want to show you a different way of using Boolean values and of writing if statements, which is also very common in Javascript.

1. Up to this point, we always derived Boolean values by writing comparison code like this. And that is super common.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}
```

But

- => sometimes you also have so-called `flag variables`, which have a true or false value stored inside of them.

1. And an example could be that you're building a website where users can log in and hence in your Javascript code that adds a certain functionality to the page, you might be storing the current log in status of the user because your code execution depends on whether a user isLoggedIn or not.

- For that, you could have a constant here or a variable, doesn't matter, which you could name isLoggedIn,

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn
```

> which is a kind of name we haven't used up to this point, but which is a naming convention you'll use very often when you store Boolean values,

- because you want to describe what's stored in a variable. And here I want to store true, let's say.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true
```

So not the result of some comparison, not a number, not a string, but true as a value itself.

And then isLoggedIn is a quite fitting name if this variable stores the answer to the question whether the current website visitor is logged in or not.

So here I'm storing true. Could be false, doesn't matter. It's just an example in that variable named isLoggedIn.

1. And now we might have some code that should only be executed if this is true.

And here, of course, it's hard coded, but again, we could be fetching this from some other part of this website and hence this could be dynamic. Let's imagine it is.

2. Now we can write a if statement and we can, of course, then for example, console log 'user is logged in'.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if () {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}
```

We could do that.

3. Now in this condition, we now might want to check if isLoggedIn is true or false. And for that, we can of course compare isLoggedIn to true and say this code should execute if isLoggedIn,

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (isLoggedIn === true) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}
```

this variable, has stored true as a value. That would work and there's nothing wrong with it.

- But keep in mind this condition here, in a if statement or also in an elseif block, of course, wants a Boolean value in the end.

- And we use comparisons like this, or like this because those comparisons do yield Boolean values.

4. Now isLoggedIn actually already has a Boolean value stored. So this is kind of a redundant comparison.

- We can also just write if isLoggedIn like this.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}
```

And if that's true, which in this case is, this code will execute.

If this would be false, then this code would not execute.

So if I save that, I get user is logged in here.

5. Now let's say we would want to have the opposite check. And we want to say user is not logged in here.

- Then we might want to check whether isLoggedIn is false.

- And again, we could therefore write this

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (isLoggedIn === false) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}
```

and that would be correct,

6. but we can also shorten this and just write if not isLoggedIn with that negation operator,

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (!isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}
```

this exclamation mark.

> With that we're saying, if this is not true, then this code should execute.

Here, of course, it is true. And therefore if I save that, we have no output from that if statement here because we don't make it into this if statement with this condition and this value.

But

- => knowing that you can store Booleans in variables as I'm doing it here,

- => and how you should then name these variables, that you should name them as if they answer a question,

- => and that this is also a common thing to do and how you can then use these Boolean values in if checks, that is important.

- => Because again, that's also a certain way of working with Booleans and if statements, which you will see a lot in web development.
