# 299. Practice Time: Setup & The "for" Loop

- => Now, to practice more JavaScript and explore loops in more realistic examples, I attached another ZIP file,

this loops-in-action ZIP file, which you can extract to get this folder with this HTML and this CSS file, which you see here.

And these are the two files we will work on and a JavaScript file, which we will create over the next minutes.

So we can ignore the other content of this project folder for now, that's what we will continue working on.

So simply add this extracted loops-in-action folder to your overall project folder in which we've been working,

and then as before, simply open the index.html file with that live server extension so that you see it on the screen.

- => And that is the example I showed you a little bit earlier in this course already but without any functionality.

Clicking these buttons doesn't do anything because that is exactly what we will work on. And therefore, let's now work on this together.

- => And here in this first example, we wanna build a simple calculator where we can enter a number here, and when we click that button, we add up all the numbers leading up to this number, and output the overall sum here in this box.

For this in this index.html file, in this loops-in-action folder, I got this paragraph with an id of calculated-sum, which currently has no content between the opening and closing tags

because that will be the paragraph, which I later wanna target to output the result there.

And of course, we also need to gain access to that input field here to read the value the user entered,

and we then also need to add an event listener to this button to act upon a click and work with that entered input value.

And therefore, that's what we'll implement now.

- => For this, I'll add a `loops-in-action.js` file with dashes between these words since this is how we commonly name our files in web development.

All lowercase with dashes between individual words.

- => And, of course, I wanna include that file, I wanna link to that file from inside my index.html file,

and therefore here, in the head section below the link,

I will add script tags, and add the `src attribute` to point at this loops-in-action JavaScript file

and very important, add this `defer attribute` to make sure that the script is only evaluated and executed once the entire page code has been parsed and loaded by the browser.

- => Now we can save this index.html file and work on this loops-in-action.js file.

- => And here to solve this first task, as I mentioned, we wanna get access to the button, to the input field and to this paragraph.

```html
<body>
  <h1>JavaScript Loops in Action</h1>
  <section id="calculator">
    <h2>JavaScript Calculator</h2>
    <p>Determine the sum of all numbers (beginning at zero) up to a number of your choice.</p>
    <div class="control">
      <label for="user-number">Your Number</label>
      <input type="number" id="user-number" />
    </div>
    <button>Calculate Sum</button>
    <p id="calculated-sum" class="output"></p> </section
></body>
```

These are the three elements we need to get access to to work with them.

And then we'll need to act accordingly when the button is clicked.

- => Therefore here, I'll start with the First Example where we sum our numbers.

And I'm just adding the comment here so that this overall JavaScript file stays structured and is easy to understand.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers
```

1. And then here, I'll first of all create a new constant in which I wanna store my button to which I wanna reach out because I'll need that button to add the event listener.

And that could be the calculateSumButtonElement.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement =
```

The name is up to you but I think that is a good description of what we will store in this constant.

2. And the question now is how do we get access to this button.

It does not have an ID but, of course, we could add one, and that would be perfectly fine so that we can then select the button by ID.

3. But we could also use querySelector.

And you learned that querySelector, when we use it, actually selects the first matching element.

So here I could select button like this and that would work because in the HTML file, this is the first button in the overall document.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('button')
```

We got more buttons but they come after this button. So actually using querySelector button here would work.

4. But we could also be a bit more specific in this querySelector, and there in this CSS query code, which we pass to it to make sure that even if we would add another button in front of it in the future, we still select this button correctly.

And here we could utilize the fact that on this section that wraps the button, we got this id here, calculator.

And I did mention that what we pass to querySelector, in the end should just be a valid CSS selector.

So what we can do here is we can also select the ID, #calculator, with the hash symbol. That's the CSS ID selector. And then a blank and then the button tag.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')
```

And that means we wanna select the first button inside of an element with the ID calculator. And that's a more specific way of targeting exactly this button

and now even if we would add another button here in front of that button, we would still select this button with this querySelector code because we have this extra selection criteria here of only taking a button that's inside an element with the calculator ID.

5. This, of course, is not related to loops but this also is a general JavaScript practice and that's why I wanted to emphasize this as well.

6. So now we've got access to that button, and here we can now use that calculateSumButtonElement to add an EventListener, and that should be a click event to which we wanna listen, of course.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click')
```

And we wanna add a function here, which we execute when that button is clicked.

And that could be the calculateSum function. That would be one possible name because that's what this function will do and then here, we point at this function by its name.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

So no parentheses here. Instead just pointing at the function by name.

7. So now here we've got this function and in this function, we now need to get access to this input value here.

```html
<input type="number" id="user-number" />
```

8. For this, we can get access to the input element here inside the function code and store it in a constant. And that could be the userNumberElement

because this is the element that holds the user's number or `userNumberInputElement` to be even more precise. The naming, of course, is up to you though.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)

```

9. And we could also create this constant outside of this function and that would also be perfectly fine. I'm just doing it here inside the function to also show you that this is a valid alternative because we will only use this constant inside of this function.

And if we'd never use it anywhere outside of this function, there really isn't a strong reason for defining this constant outside of the function, though we can do it and it also wouldn't be a mistake.

10. And here we can now select this input element by the id, which we have here, user-number,

and therefore, we can use document.getElementById user-number like this.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

11. This allows us to get the `enteredNumber` and we can store this in an extra `constant` where we reach out to the `userNumberInputElement` and we learned that these InputElement objects in JavaScript have a `value` property,

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
  const enteredNumber = userNumberInputElement.value
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

(even though I'm not getting auto completion for it. I'm just getting nodeValue, which is the wrong one. But we will have a value here because this is an InputElement. The IDE just doesn't know it and that's why we don't get the auto completion.)

12. But we will have a value property, which holds the entered value the user chose. And that's our enteredNumber then.

- => Now it's time to sum up all the values leading up to that number, and that is a task where we can utilize JavaScript loops.

1. Here I wanna build my sumUpToNumber chosen by the user. And I start at zero here

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
  const enteredNumber = userNumberInputElement.value

  let sumUpToNumber = 0
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

2. but then I wanna write a loop where we continue repeating code until we reached this entered number. And that's a place where we can utilize this regular for loop.

So not for of and not for in but the regular for loop.

3. And if you remember, we wrote such a loop by using the for keyword, then parentheses, we'll put some code into those soon, and then curly braces with the loop code.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
  const enteredNumber = userNumberInputElement.value

  let sumUpToNumber = 0

  for () {

  }
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

4. And here between those parentheses, I will create a helper variable to which we have access inside of the loop,

which I will name i because that's kind of the convention, and here we can start at zero. Then we add a semicolon.

We wanna keep looping as long as i is smaller or equal actually than the enteredNumber. So the number chosen by the user.

And after every iteration, I wanna add one to i

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
  const enteredNumber = userNumberInputElement.value

  let sumUpToNumber = 0

  for (let i = 0; i <= enteredNumber; i++) {}
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

5. because if we do it like this, then i will be every number from zero up to that enteredNumber and it will change with every iteration.

6. And we can then simply use sumUpToNumber, this variable, which is zero initially, and assign a new value to it, which is why this must be a variable and not a constant,

and the new value, which we assigned should be the previous number, the previously stored sum plus i

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
  const enteredNumber = userNumberInputElement.value

  let sumUpToNumber = 0

  for (let i = 0; i <= enteredNumber; i++) {
    sumUpToNumber = sumUpToNumber + i
  }
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

because i will be a different number in every iteration and it will be every number up to that enteredNumber.

And because we have smaller or equal here as a loop condition, i will also be equal to that enteredNumber eventually.

7. And therefore, once this loop completed and once code execution reaches the next line of code after this loop, sumUpToNumber will be the sum of all the numbers up to the enteredNumber,

- => and now we just need to output it, and for this, we need to get access to this paragraph,

```html
<p id="calculated-sum" class="output"></p>
```

1. and we do get access by using this id here, for example, which we have on this paragraph,

2. and again, I'll just get access to that element right here in the function when we need access,

and here I'll then get my outputResultElement. That could be a name.

And here we can use document.getElementById. And get access to it like this.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
  const enteredNumber = userNumberInputElement.value

  let sumUpToNumber = 0

  for (let i = 0; i <= enteredNumber; i++) {
    sumUpToNumber = sumUpToNumber + i
  }

  const outputResultElement = document.getElementById('calculate-sum')
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

3. And then once we got access to this element, we can use this outputResultElement and set the textContent to sumUpToNumber.

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
  const enteredNumber = userNumberInputElement.value

  let sumUpToNumber = 0

  for (let i = 0; i <= enteredNumber; i++) {
    sumUpToNumber = sumUpToNumber + i
  }

  const outputResultElement = document.getElementById('calculated-sum')

  outputResultElement.textContent = sumUpToNumber
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

So to that number we derived here.

- => Now, that will not be all that we have to do because if we have a look at styles.css, we can actually see that this calculated-sum element has display: none initially so that we don't see the empty result box initially

1. and therefore, we'll have to change that as well and I'll quickly do that by just reaching out to style.display here and setting this to block,

```js
// First Example: Sum numbers

const calculateSumButtonElement = document.querySelector('#calculator button')

function calculateSum() {
  const userNumberInputElement = document.getElementById('user-number')
  const enteredNumber = userNumberInputElement.value

  let sumUpToNumber = 0

  for (let i = 0; i <= enteredNumber; i++) {
    sumUpToNumber = sumUpToNumber + i
  }

  const outputResultElement = document.getElementById('calculated-sum')

  outputResultElement.textContent = sumUpToNumber
  outputResultElement.style.display = 'block'
}

calculateSumButtonElement.addEventListener('click', calculateSum)
```

which ensures that this will be visible because it's no longer display: none.

- => And with all of that done, we should have the finished code for this first example.

If we reload this page and I enter five and click this button, then we should see 15 as a result.

And that is correct because the sum of all the numbers up to five, including five is five plus four equals nine plus 3 equals 12 plus 2 equals 14plus 1 equals 15.

And you can play around with that and calculate different numbers here and that is therefore, this task solved.

That's this first task or this first exercise implemented with help of such a regular for loop.
