# 272. Introducing Events

- => By now we know how to select elements in the DOM. We know how to manipulate them, how to change the text content, for example. And we had a look at how we can insert, delete and move elements. Now that's all great.

> But in order to build this little demo example here, which has showed you over and over again. We will need one additional building block,

- one additional feature of JavaScript which we haven't learned about yet.

> Because in order to update this here, we need to know how to change what we see on the screen. And we did learn about that. So that should be fine.

> We will also need a way of getting access to this input field, to see what the user entered And we also learned how to do that.

> We learned how to query four elements. How to select elements.

- => But what's missing is that we also need to listen to an event.

1. We need to find out when the user types into this input field.

2. We need to listen to every keystroke that's being made into this input field so that we can update this output here with every keystroke.

- => So we will need to learn about events. And never a key feature JavaScript allows us to, to implement or to use in our code.

1. We can listen to all kinds of events that may occur on our website, like a user clicking on some element or typing into an input field or scrolling, or a bunch of other events that could occur.

- => With JavaScript we can listen to such events and we can then execute code of our choice when such an event occurs.

That's what we can do with JavaScript.

- => And we will be able to do that by adding EventListeners with that `addEventListener` method to our elements.

> And hence that's what we're going to explore now so that we can then finally move on to building this demo here on our own.
