---
recall: header
---

# 26. Box Model, Margin & Padding  
Practice: in a folder, 2 divs with a class of box and an h3 and a p...
---------------------------------------------
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>

   </style>
</head>
<body>
   <div class="box">
      <h3>Box One</h3>
      <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipisicing elit. Eaque sint architecto non deleniti ipsum consectetur cum, doloremque officiis nobis quia.</p>
   </div>
   <div class="box">
      <h3>Box Two</h3>
      <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipisicing elit. Eaque sint architecto non deleniti ipsum consectetur cum, doloremque officiis nobis quia.</p>
   </div>
</body>
</html>
---------------------------------------------

*(26.1) chrome tools and the box model*...

Open it and chrome and I want to open up our dev tools. So on Mac it's command option I on Windows it's F 12 or you can use your here menu. So remember this is the H team all over here. This is a CSX. So I'm actually going to just click on the div right here the first div which will give us the CSX which by default just has a display block because remember divs by default are displayed as a block. Meaning they go all the way across. 

*(26.2) the box model*...

And right here you're going to see a diagram of the box model which makes it a lot easier to explain. 

*(26.3) the element itself*...

So there's basically four layers there's the element itself which we can put a Hytner with property on. By default the width is all is all the way across and the height is going to be however much content is in it. If I had a bunch more paragraphs it's going to extend more or I can just set a height and CSX 

*(26.4) then we have...

*padding*  
So we have spacing we can put here

*(26.5) then we have the...

*border*  
then we have the border. We looked at the border properties in the last video and 


*(26.6) then we have the...

*margin*  
Now the margin in padding the spacing is some people get this confused when they first start. But all you really have to remember is the margin is the outside of the element or the outside of the board or the padding is the inside.  
 
So to give you an example let me just add some styling for the box. So we're gonna see box we're going to say background. We're going to give it a color of light gray and then we'll give it a border. Let's say two pixels Gray solid and we went over the stuff in the last video.  
 
So now you can get a better picture of of the box model so we have the content then we have the padding and then we have the border and then outside of the borders the margin.

*(26.7) the browser has default margin and padding on certain elements*...

Now notice that there's some spacing here. There's spacing here there's spacing here and there's even spacing around the sides that's because the browser has default margin impacting on certain elements.  
 
So if we grab the selector tool here and I hover over the h three you'll see that there's some orange areas here where the spaces. That's the margin.  

And if I go over the the paragraph we have some margin and even the body if I go right. Actually it's not going to let me show it. But anyways the body has some some margin as well.  
 
So let's click on this. The H3 and then over here you'll see the styling so  
 
* this margin blocks start margin block and is basically margin top and bottom.  
 
And it has a value of 1 M and M is a relative unit it's relative to the number of pixels of the font size of its element of its parent container.  
 
And if you don't understand what that means don't worry about it. If you want to see the computed pixels you can actually click on computed and it will show you that the font size and the margin on the top and bottom for the H 3 is going to be it's 18 7 2 pixels by default.  
 
If we click on the paragraph you'll see that it has a margin on the top and bottom of 16 pixels.  
 
If I click on the body you can see it has a margin on all sides of eight pixels. And there you can see the orange around the whole body. OK.  
 
So these are all default browser styles and there's other elements as well like a well and unordered list and an ordered list. They both have margin on the top and bottom and they have a padding on the left of I believe 40 pixels.  
 
So this is just stuff that you that you're going to run into and 

*(26.8) you can overwrite those values obviously*...

like I could set for paragraph I could set margin to to zero and get rid of that and I can actually show you that real quick. So if I say box paragraph and set margin to zero and save that we go back. Now if I you'll see that there's no orange when I hover over the paragraph and if we look at the styles you can still see the default but this overwrite it. What I just did. OK.

*(26.9) CSS reset*...

Now if you want to take away all the default styling you can do that with what's called a reset. So I'm going to get rid of that. What I just did and I'm going to create C assess reset. OK.  
 
And there's different ways to reset. You can reset margin and padding font size borders. There is actually like a popular reset files that you can use like Eric Myers has a reset file that's pretty popular.  
 
* But the easiest way to do it is just to use an asterisk which selects everything and then just say you want margin to be zero and padding to be zero...

```
* {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
}   
```  
 
So we're just setting the margin and padding to zero for everything. So let's save that.
 
* Now it's up to you on if you want to use a reset or not. I do sometimes it really depends on the layout but if you do use it you have to remember to add all of your your your own margin and padding  
 
because now if I add another paragraph under this one it's going to be right next to it it's not going to have that that default spacing that the browser gives it same with the heading usually you'll want some space here it's not there anymore we will have to create it if we're going to keep the reset. All right.  
 
So I just wanted to kind of explain how the the default margin and padding works. Also the structure of the box model.

*(26.10) padding on all sides (padding: 20px;)*...

So now let's look at some properties that have to do with margin in padding. So I'm going to add a width to the box as well it's do with 500 pixels and let's say want padding on all sides. So I'm going to put a comment right here and going to see padding on all sides.   
 
So we would just use padding and then we could do let's say 20 pixels.  
 
So this will put 20 pixels on all sides...

```
.box {
background: #f4f4f4;
border: 2px #777 solid;
width: 500px;
padding: 20px;
}  
```  
 
You can see top and and notice the green when if I use the elements selector and we hover over it we see the green that's actually the padding OK.  
 
And you can see that it's 20 pixels on all sides for both obviously because they're both they both have the class of box which is what we styled.

*(26.11) adding box-sizing: border-box; to the reset*...

Now when we add padding if we if we keep the box sizing the way it is now the box sizing property it adds to the width of the entire thing. All right. And to just give you an example if I say padding 120 and we take a look at the width of this is no it's not 500 pixels it added to that it's 500 pixels plus the padding and that's not usually how you want to do it usually you want to keep the with at the right width and then just add the padding so to do that you want to add to the Astros right here. A box sizing property. And you want to set that to border box...

``` 
* {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
box-sizing: border-box;
}
```

*(26.12) adding margin on all sides (margin: 20px;)*...

and the next thing I want to do is show you margin because right now there's no margin and these are kind of stuck together. So margin is gonna be spacing around the border on the outside of the border.  
 
So let's add a margin on all sides and we'll say margin 20 pixels...

```
.box {
background: #f4f4f4;
border: 2px #777 solid;
width: 500px;
padding: 20px;
margin: 20px;
}
```

*(26.13) padding per side (padding-top: 10px; etc)*...

Now these properties that we've used Matt Pat padding and margin with just one value it's putting the same on all sides but there may be cases where you want different values on different sides.  
 
So I'm going to go down here and let's say padding per side. OK.  
 
So we can use padding top. So let's say on the top we want 10 pixels and let's do padding bottom. Actually I want to do top stoop right. And I'm doing this in a certain order for a reason and I'll show you that in a minute. So padding right. Let's say we want 20 pixels let's do padding bottom. We'll do 10. Just like the top and then left. We'll do 20. Just like the right...

```
.box {
background: #f4f4f4;
border: 2px #777 solid;
width: 500px;
padding: 20px;
padding-top: 10px;
padding-right: 20px;
padding-bottom: 10px;
padding-left: 20px;
margin: 20px;
}  
```  
 
* Now this is going to overwrite this and that's something that I really haven't talked about yet. 
When you have the same properties that are the ones that are further down are going to overwrite the ones that are further off. OK so all this padding here is going to overwrite this one.

*(26.14) Padding shorthand = top right bottom left*...

So if you want to do this but you don't want to have four different properties you can you can shorten this just like with with most cases like you saw with the with the border in the background there's there's short hands. So let's say padding shorthand.  
 
Now when we do this there's a certain order to the values. So it's gonna be this just like I did right above Top Right Bottom Left. That's why I did it in this order.  
 
So if we say padding it's gonna be in that order so let's do top 10 pixels. Right. Twenty pixels bottom 10 pixels left 20 pixels. So if I save that and we take a look it's gonna be the same thing...

```
.box {
background: #f4f4f4;
border: 2px #777 solid;
width: 500px;
padding: 20px;
padding-top: 10px;
padding-right: 20px;
padding-bottom: 10px;
padding-left: 20px;
padding: 10px 20px 10px 20px;
margin: 20px;
}  
```  
 
So this is just a shorthand for this. Does the exact same thing.

*(26.15) Padding shorthand = top/bottom left/right*...
 
Now we can make this even shorter because the top and bottom in the left and right are the same top and bottom 10 left and right or 20. So let's say padding shorthand so we can actually just have two values. One will be top bottom one will be left right. So we'll say padding top and bottom we want 10 left and right we want 20. OK. So this is the same exact thing is this which is the same exact thing is this. So we're just shortening it up... 

```
.box {
background: #f4f4f4;
border: 2px #777 solid;
width: 500px;
padding: 20px;
padding-top: 10px;
padding-right: 20px;
padding-bottom: 10px;
padding-left: 20px;
padding: 10px 20px 10px 20px;
padding: 10px 20px;
margin: 20px;
}  
```  
 
So if we look at it we get the same exact thing we have the 10 on the top and bottom 20 on the left and right. So hopefully that makes sense.  
 
You can add padding all these different ways

*(26.16) now with margin It's the same exact thing*...
 
OK. Same exact thing I'm actually going to just copy all this and change it to margin. So margin top right left bottom this same thing. Same order so let's grab this and let's put this down here and just change this to margin change these to margin margin OK so that's gonna do same exact thing. Save that for Take a look.  
 
*margin per side (margin-top: 10px; etc)*  
 
*margin shorthand = top right bottom left*  
 
*margin shorthand = top/bottom left/right*...

```
.box {
background: #f4f4f4;
border: 2px #777 solid;
width: 500px;
padding: 20px;

padding-top: 10px;
padding-right: 20px;
padding-bottom: 10px;
padding-left: 20px;

padding: 10px 20px 10px 20px;

padding: 10px 20px;

margin: 20px;

margin-top: 10px;
margin-right: 20px;
margin-bottom: 10px;
margin-left: 20px;

margin: 10px 20px 10px 20px;

margin: 10px 20px;
}  
``` 
Now we have ten pixels top and bottom margin 20 left and right margin. OK. So yeah I think that that's all I want to do here.