# 10. Building a Complex Animated Button - Part 2

> 1. what we're missing here is this white part that looks like it zooms out to infinity when we hover, and it comes back when we hover out

```css
/*
COLORS:

Light green: #7ed56f
Medium green: #55c57a
Dark green: #28b485

*/

* {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

body {
  font-family: 'Lato', sans-serif;
  font-weight: 400;
  font-size: 16px;
  line-height: 1.7;
  color: #777;
  padding: 30px;
}

.header {
  height: 95vh;
  background-image: linear-gradient(to right, rgba(126, 213, 111, 0.8), rgba(40, 180, 133, 0.8)),
    url(../img/hero.jpg);
  background-size: cover;
  background-position: top;
  position: relative;
  clip-path: polygon(0 0, 100% 0, 100% 75vh, 0 100%);
}

.logo-box {
  position: absolute;
  top: 40px;
  left: 40px;
}

.logo {
  height: 35px;
}

.text-box {
  position: absolute;
  top: 40%;
  left: 50%;
  transform: translate(-50%, -50%);
  text-align: center;
}

.heading-primary {
  color: #fff;
  text-transform: uppercase;
  margin-bottom: 60px;
}

.heading-primary-main {
  display: block;
  font-size: 60px;
  font-weight: 400;
  letter-spacing: 35px;

  animation-name: moveInLeft;
  animation-duration: 1s;
  animation-timing-function: ease-out;

  /*
  animation-iteration-count: 3;
  animation-delay: 3s;
  */
}

.heading-primary-sub {
  display: block;
  font-size: 20px;
  font-weight: 700;
  letter-spacing: 17.4px;
  animation: moveInRight 1s ease-out;
}

@keyframes moveInLeft {
  0% {
    opacity: 0;
    transform: translateX(-100px);
  }

  80% {
    transform: translateX(10px);
  }

  100% {
    opacity: 1;
    transform: translate(0);
  }
}

@keyframes moveInRight {
  0% {
    opacity: 0;
    transform: translateX(100px);
  }

  80% {
    transform: translateX(-10px);
  }

  100% {
    opacity: 1;
    transform: translate(0);
  }
}
@keyframes moveInBottom {
  0% {
    opacity: 0;
    transform: translateY(30px);
  }

  100% {
    opacity: 1;
    transform: translate(0);
  }
}

.btn:link,
.btn:visited {
  text-transform: uppercase;
  text-decoration: none;
  padding: 15px 40px;
  display: inline-block;
  border-radius: 100px;
  transition: all 0.2s;
  position: relative;
}

.btn:hover {
  transform: translateY(-3px);
  box-shadow: 0 10px 20px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
}

.btn:active {
  transform: translateY(-1px);
  box-shadow: 0 15px 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
}

.btn-white {
  background-color: #fff;
  color: #777;
}

.btn::after {
  content: '';
  display: inline-block;
  height: 100%;
  width: 100%;
  border-radius: 100px;
  position: absolute;
  top: 0;
  left: 0;
  z-index: -1;
  transition: all 0.4s;
}

.btn-white::after {
  background-color: #fff;
}

.btn:hover::after {
  transform: scaleX(1.4) scaleY(1.6);
  opacity: 0;
}

.btn-animated {
  animation: moveInBottom 0.5s ease-out 0.75s;
  animation-fill-mode: backwards;
}
```

- we're gonna use pseudo-elements. And pseudo-elements allow us to style certain parts of elements

- the after pseudo-element that we're gonna use adds like a virtual element right after the element that we're selecting And we can then style that element.

- So, let me just add the `btn::after` pseudo-element

- So the trick here is to add an element that looks exactly like the button that we already have, but we put it behind the button. And when we hover out of the button, then this hidden pseudo-element amazingly goes back behind the button.

- First, in order for an after pseudo-element to actually appear on the page, we need to specify its `content: "";` property. So that's always necessary.

- It doesn't matter what the content is. It can even be empty (`""`) like we're gonna do here, but we have to specify it.

- And the same thing with the display property. So we have to specify the display property. And in this case, we're gonna say it's an inline block because the button that we have is also an inline block. `display: inline-block;`

- We want it to look the same. So we want to have a `height of 100%`. And we want to have a `width of 100%` as well. And this works because the after pseudo-element is basically treated like a child of the button.

- Now the border-radius , should also be the same. `border-radius: 100px;`

- we also want it to be white. But in order for it to be white, we actually should make another after pseudo-element but this time for the btn-white `.btn-white::after {}`

- And so `background-color` should be `white`.

- So right now it still looks like it's part of our element. what we wanna do, remember, is to put it behind our actual button. we use absolute positioning. So `position: absolute` And then we just say it should be zero from the `top:0` and zero from the `left:0`.

- Now remember that this absolute positioning needs to have a reference. And the reference is the first element with the relative position that it can find And so, the reference should be the button. (`.btn:link, .btn:visited {}`)Therefore, what we have to do is to set the position property of the button to relative `position: relative;`

- Now one more thing that we have to do is to set the `z-index: -1` And we will put it to minus one.

- We want to see it when we hover the button. So what we're gonna do is to write it like this. `.btn:hover::after {}`So, when we hover the button, then we want some certain styles for the after pseudo-element.

- We want the element to grow and to fade out. And so, what we first do is to use once again, the `transform` property. This time we do a scale(). So what scale does is to simply increase the element. So if we do `scale(2)`, then it will appear double the size that it had before.

- we don't want to scale it this much. So let's just say `scale(1.5)`

- And we also want this to be animated just like before. and we have to put the transition property on the initial state. In this case the initial state is of course this after pseudo-element. `.btn::after {}` So we say `transition: all .4s;` and again I'm going to use all here, and then use, let's say, point four seconds in this case.

- Now what also happens, is that the element actually fades out. So on `.btn:hover::after {}` we set `opacity: 0` That's the trick for fading something out, is going to opacity zero.

- Now we can make this a a little bit better because if you look closely at the top of the button, and you see that it looks really small. `transform: scaleX(1.4) scaleY(1.6);` So now it looks a bit better.

- we also want the button to come up from the bottom on page reload, So let's very quickly code up another animation for that.

- so I'm gonna copy @keyframes moveInRight {} 'cause it's pretty similar and name it `@keyframes moveInBottom`

- This time we don't need any 80% because it's just from one point to the other.

- And so we can do `translateY` this time. And put something like `30 pixels` here in the starting position

- And let's now actually use this animation. Now again there will be multiple buttons like this. But I only want this animation to happen on this particular button. And so what I'm gonna do is to create a new class on the button. So `.btn-animated` And only this button will have this class. `<a href="#" class="btn btn-white btn-animated">Discover our tours</a>`

- And then in here I will put the animation. So animation, and I'm going to use the shorten property that I showed you before. And now it's called move in bottom. And let's use point five, second animation. And we're gonna use an ease out this time. `.btn-animated {animation: moveInBottom 0.5s ease-out;}`

- Now plus what we're gonna do is to have a delay. So we don't want to start it at the same time as the others. We want it to start slightly later. So maybe not one entire second, which is the animation time of the other two animations, but maybe just 75% of that. So .75 seconds.
  `.btn-animated {animation: moveInBottom 0.5s ease-out .75s;}`

- Actually the button was visible before the animation happened, We could simply put these initial states on the button. But that would be highly impractical , So there is another property related to animations. And this one is called `animation-fill-mode` And now we can set it to `backwards`

- And what this does is that it will automatically apply the styles up to zero percent before the animation starts. So, again, these styles will now be applied before the animation starts simply by using the animation fill mode and set it to backwards
