# 245. Performing String (Text) Operations

```
Mathematical operations aren't everything though.
```

- => We can also work with strings, So with text in our JavaScript code, And I want to show this as well.

1. Here, I'm logging a value again, but now I'll log the result of adding two strings together.

> Let's say "Max" and then "Schwarzmüller," which is my last name.

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
console.log(10 - 4)
console.log(10 * 4)
console.log(10 / 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
console.log(10 % 3)

console.log((10 + 3 - 5) * 10) // 80

console.log('Max' + 'Schwarzmüller') // MaxSchwarzmüller
```

- => Now here, I'm using the plus operator, but I'm not using it on numbers as I did it before, but instead on strings, and that will work.

> If I save this, you see this as a result.

- => The strings have been concatenated, That's how we call this.

> You can use the plus operator on strings to combine them into one string.

1. Now, here we don't have any blank or white space between these two words that have been combined because we didn't add any here in this operation.

> If we would want one, we would have to add one like this maybe.

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
console.log(10 - 4)
console.log(10 * 4)
console.log(10 / 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
console.log(10 % 3)

console.log((10 + 3 - 5) * 10) // 80

console.log('Max' + ' ' + 'Schwarzmüller') // Max Schwarzmüller
```

> And that's how we then would get a blank in that final string as well.

- => So you can use the plus operator on strings as well to concatenate those strings. You can't however, use the minus operator.

1. So maybe you would think that this could work

```js
// Math operations

console.log(10 + 4)
console.log(10 - 4)
console.log(10 * 4)
console.log(10 / 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
console.log(10 % 4)
console.log(10 % 3)

console.log((10 + 3 - 5) * 10) // 80

console.log('Max' + ' ' + 'Schwarzmüller') // Max Schwarzmüller
console.log('Max' - 'ax') // NaN
```

> and it should maybe return "M" as a result, but that is actually not what will happen. Instead, we get NaN as a result,

> and that's now not a special text, but instead,

- => Instead, we get NaN as a result, this is a special type built into JavaScript, which means "not a number."

- => And you get this type whenever you perform a mathematical operation on values where JavaScript then is not able to yield a number as a result.

- => And in case of the plus operator, there is an exception. This is allowed to work on strings, but for minus, the times operator, the division operator, and the modulus operator, all these operators can really only be used on numbers and not on strings.

> But concatenating strings is a common task and therefore, something you should know.

> And again, just as before, here, I'm doing it in that place. I am not using any variables.

- => Of course, we could store these individual strings in variables and then combine these variables, or also store the result of this in a variable, and then use that variable.

> I'm just not doing that here because I'm not using these values or the result of this concatenation anywhere else in this code.
