# 303. Module Summary

- => Now with these examples, I showed you in the last minutes and in the last lectures, I now want to conclude this section. It, was never a big section with a lot of new content, but this now basically concludes or finishes our JavaScript foundation.

JavaScript has way more to offer, way more features.

There is a reason why I also offer a 50 hour course focused on just JavaScript.

There's way more you can teach, but this course is not a JavaScript course. It's a general web development course. And therefore, of course,

we want to ensure that we give you all these fundamentals for HTML, for CSS, for Java script, that you need to get started building websites

and that you know the most common and important features.

And with control structures, we added more common and important features that you need to know.

Now, in this module here, we did learn about conditional code about "if" statements and about comparison operators and logical operators.

And we saw a great example here in this demo JS code with these remaining characters.

Here, we also see that we can use "if", "else if" and "else" combined

to run different code based on different circumstances.

We learned about Boolean values and about these comparison operators. And we also learned that you can combine operators that you can use the "end" or "or" operator to derive more complex results and more complex values.

Now, we then also learned about loops and we learned that loops allow us to repeat code based on different circumstances until a certain number of iterations is met to loop through all the elements in an array or all the properties in an object or loop as long as a certain condition is met.

We also saw that in the examples I showed you a couple of minutes ago, and there you saw all those loops.

And actually, again, combined with plenty of other JavaScript features we also learned about throughout this course.

Like, query selector, adding event listeners, even query selector, all which we saw in action here for selecting allthese links and much, much more.

Definitely make sure that all these features, these loops, the idea behind control structures, and so on. That, all of that is clear because we will need that for the rest of this course.

Now it's needless to say that we will have more examples and more demos, but still make sure you go back to individual lectures where the concept taught might not be 100% clear yet,

so that we are all on the same page once you finished this module.

You should know what the idea behind controlled structures is and how loops and "if" statements generally work.
