---
recall: header
---

# 20. Implementing CSS

> Practice: in a folder with a html and a css file...

---

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css">
   <title>Document</title>
   <style>

   </style>
</head>
<body>
   <h1>Heading One</h1>
   <h2>Heading Two</h2>
   <h3>Heading Three</h3>
</body>
</html>
```

---

_(20.1) `three` different ways to implement CSS_

So we have three headings on the screen and I'm going to show you `three different ways` to implement CSS.

_(20.2) inline CSS_

Using inline css give the text in the h1 a red color...

```
<h1 style="color:red">Heading One</h1>
<h2>Heading Two</h2>
<h3>Heading Three</h3>
```

_(20.3) separation of concerns_...

Now you don't want to do this and the reason for that is you want to _keep separation of concerns_.

you want to _keep your styling out of your markup_.

And when you do it like this you're just clumping it all together.

It's much _harder to read_.

It's much _harder to change_.

It's just _not good practice_ and any developer will give you crap for doing this.

So this is not something you want to do but it's something that you should know you can do.

_(20.4) internal CSS_  
using internal CSS give the h2 a color green...

```
<style>
h2 {
 color: green;
}
</style>
```

_(20.6) CSS syntax_

```
h2 {
color: green;
}
```

Now let's go over this syntax really quick.

the first thing here is a...

_selector (h2)_

then...

_the declarations start ({)_

We also have...

_the declarations end (})_

and inside the curly braces we have...

_a property_

And then...

_the value_

And in between that we have...

_the property/value separator (:)_ colon

and you can add more properties, you just want to end each one with...

_the declaration separator (;)_ semicolon

_(20.7) external CSS_  
using a css file in a css folder and a link tag with its 2 necessary attributes, style the h3 blue...

`<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css">`

- Now out of these three this is the preferred using an external CSS file.
