---
recall: header
---

# 112. Environment Setup With node-sass  
Practice: from an empty folder called sass-sandbox

*Now we're gonna go ahead and set up node sass*...
 
so that we can compile our scss files and our sass code.

*So you need to go to nodejs.org If you don't already have installed*...

and just go ahead and install either the long term support or the current version for latest features, doesn't really matter in this situation.

*Now we're gonna jump into vscode and I just have an empty folder called sass_sandbox*...

*and we need to use the terminal or the command line*...

I'm going to use my integrated terminal.  
 
We can open that and V.S. code with control tilde  
 
or you can go to the View menu and just go to a terminal  
 
or you can use your standard Mac terminal windows command prompt Linux terminal whatever  
 
and just do a quick `npm --version`  
 
just to make sure you have npm installed.

*And then what we want to do is create a package.json File*...

and we can generate that with `npm init -y`  
 
and then I'm also going to add on -y  
 
so that we don't have to answer a bunch of questions it will just give us the defaults.  
 
so let's go out and run that.  
 
I'll clear this up with control L  
 
and in our package.json It just has the name the version all that stuff.  
 
Once we install node sass it should get listed in here as a dependency.


*So let's say `npm install node-sass`*...

so it's going to install it in a folder called node_modules  
 
and you can see it's listed here as a dependency.  

*Now in order to use node sass we're going to create an npm script (inside the package.json)*...

So inside here the scripts we don't need this test  
 
I'm actually gonna change this to `"sass":` That way we can just run `npm run sass`  
 
and then in here we want it to run node-sass.  
 
We want to set a watch flag so -w  
 
we want it to constantly watch a folder called scss which we haven't created yet, So scss/  
 
and then we want it to output -o to a folder called dist/css  
 
dist is where basically our project is going to live.  
 
The html files the css anything that we would deploy will be in that dist folder  
 
and then we're just going to add a --recursive flag here. All right.  
 
So that should be good...

```
"scripts": {
   "sass": "node-sass -w scss/ -o dist/css/ --recursive"
},  
```  
Let's go ahead and save this  
 
and we'll close it up

*And now what I'll do is create a folder called scss*...

and this is where all of our sass files will go.  
 
So let's create a file called `main.scss`  
 
and you can see it has a little sass logo there.  
 
*Now we also want to create a folder called dist*...

and this is where the compiled css is going to go as we directed in our script.

*and let's run `npm run sass`*...

Now what this is going to do is it's going to constantly watch the scss folder  
 
and any sass files in it.  
 
And as soon as we save it'll compile into dist.css which we haven't even created.  
 
We don't have to create it we'll do it on its own.

*So we'll test this out by just creating a variable (inside main.scss)*...

and I'm going to discuss variables and stuff in depth, I just want to test it out.  
 
So going to say $color:, We'll set that to red  
 
and let's say a body and we'll set the background to the variable of color...

```
$color: red;

body {
   background: $color;
}  
```  
 
So this is sass. This is not regular css.

*Now I'm going to save it with control s*...
 
and as soon as I save it it'll tell us down here that rendering is complete  
 
and if we look in disk we now have a css folder with a main.css.  
 
So it's going to copy the name which we called Main  
 
and it's going to just name it that  
 
but it's going to be a css file  
 
and if we look in that it's just `body {background: red;}`  
 
So it takes the sass with these variables compiles it down to this css and then this is what we include in our html

*So in dist I'm going to create a file called index.html*...

and we'll just put in our boilerplate here  
 
and let's call this (title) "sass Sandbox"  
 
and we want to link to CSF slash main dot css  
 
and we'll just put an H1 "sass Sandbox"  
 
and we'll save that...

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Sass Sandbox</title>
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css">
</head>
<body>
   <h1>Sass Sandbox</h1>
</body>
</html>
```

*Now we can open this each team out with a live server*...

and now we have a red background

*Now if I go back into my sass file (main.scss)*...

This is where you want to do all your styling  
 
you don't want to touch the css just the sass.  
 
I'm going to change this to Blue...

```
$color: blue;

body {
   background: $color;
}  
```  
and as soon as I save that you'll see down here it renders  
 
and then we can go back and now we have a blue background.  
 
So our entire environment is set up.

*Now when you're ready to deploy, you will just take this disk folder*...

this other stuff node modules you all your sass package. Jason this is your development environment.  
 
This only has to do with your development.

*This disk is your actual project, your actual product that you would deploy*...

All right.  
 
So that's how we work with node sass and we're going to come back to this.  
 
But in the next video I want to show you another option which is using graphical program called koala.  
 
OK so we'll take a look at that and then we'll jump back in and we'll start to look at the features of sass.