---
recall: header
---

# 9. Meta Tags & Search Engines

0. Practice: on a new file with a html boilerplate

1. The lang attribute...

```js
<html lang="en"></html>
```

> The lang attribute `specifies` the language of the element's content.

> You should `always include` the lang attribute inside the `<html>` tag, to declare the language of the Web page.

> This is meant to assist search engines and browsers

2. meta tags...

> The `<meta>` tag defines metadata about an HTML document. Metadata is data (information) about data.

> `<meta>` tags always go inside the `<head>` element, and are typically used to specify

> character set,  
> page description,  
> keywords,  
> author of the document,  
> and viewport settings.

> Metadata will not be displayed on the page, but is machine parsable.

> Metadata is used by browsers (how to display content or reload page), search engines (keywords), and other web services.

3. the character set meta tag...

```js
<meta charset="UTF-8" />
```

> The charset attribute specifies the character encoding for the HTML document.

> The HTML5 specification encourages web developers to use the UTF-8 character set, which covers almost all of the characters and symbols in the world!...

4. the viewport meta tag...

`<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">`

> To mitigate this problem of virtual viewport on narrow screen devices, Apple introduced the "viewport meta tag" in Safari iOS to let web developers control the viewport's size and scale.

> Many other mobile browsers now support this tag, although it is not part of any web standard.

5. browser compatibility meta tag...

`<meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="ie=edge">`

The X-UA-Compatible meta tag allows web authors to choose what version of Internet Explorer the page should be rendered as.

_meta tags that have to do with search engines_

1. the title tag...

`<title>Meta Tags</title>`

> A title tag is an HTML element that specifies the title of a web page.

> Title tags are displayed on search engine results pages (SERPs) as the clickable headline for a given result, and are important for usability, SEO, and social sharing. The title tag of a web page is meant to be an accurate and concise description of a page's content.

2. the description meta tag...

`<meta name="description" content="This is my website description">`

> The meta description is an HTML attribute that provides a brief summary of a web page.

> Search engines such as Google often display the meta description in search results, which can influence click-through rates.

3. the keywords met a tag

`<meta name="keywords" content="web development, web design">`

> Meta Keywords are a specific type of meta tag that appear in the HTML code of a Web page and help tell search engines what the topic of the page is. Meta keywords are distinguished from regular keywords because they appear “behind the scenes,” in the source code of your page, rather than on the live, visible page itself.

> Meta keywords were devalued by Google because they were being abused by site owners and marketers.

> However, it remains unclear if keywords were removed from Google’s algorithm entirely.

4. the robots meta tag

`<meta name="robots" content="NOINDEX, NOFOLLOW">`

> Noindex: Tells a search engine not to index a page.

> Nofollow: Tells a crawler not to follow any links on a page or pass along any link equity.
