# 250. Module Summary

```
Now that's it for this course section. We talked about variables and values, arrays, and objects and functions.
```

- => Now you might recall that at the beginning of this module, I also mentioned working with the Dom and I made that super funny joke about Vin Diesel and that I mentioned control structures.

> These are topics we'll explore in the next course sections, because now we did learn about these key fundamentals, which prepare us for these slightly more advanced topics, which working with the Dom and working with control structures are.

- => For the moment, you should know what variables are and that we have values like numbers or, strings or, a arrays or, objects, which we can store in variables.

- => That we do use variables so that we can define them in one place and use them in another place. Possibly also change them and overwrite them and use them as often as we want.

- => And you learned that we can use variables either for just outputting them with alert or console log or other ways which we'll learn about later.

- => And that'd be a can of course also use them in calculations like here, a mathematical calculation, deriving a new value, which I store in a new variable in this case.

- => And that actually all takes place in a function, which is not a must do, but which makes sense if you have to same operation, which you want to perform in different parts of your code, maybe also with different concrete values.

- => That's possible because functions take parameters so that you can call them with different values

- => and they can return values so that the, you can also store the result of calling a function in another variable, or use it in another part of your code.

- => We also learned that we can add functions to objects and we then call them methods, just as we call a variables inside of object, properties.

> And that that's something which we will all to do later, but that for the moment that's mostly a feature which we will use indirectly, like here with console log.

> Certainly revisit certain lectures of this course section, if some of these topics are not entirely clear yet,

> maybe have a look at that exercise again and try redoing it if something's not clear yet, because these are important fundamentals, which we'll now use to build up on in the next course sections.
