# 270. Moving Existing Elements Around

- => Now last but not least, let's see how we can move elements around so how we can move existing elements,

```js
// MOVE ELEMENTS
```

> because that's also sometimes something you want to do.

> And we only have these two paragraphs and their links at this point.

- => And let's say, we simply want to switch order. So let's say we want to take this first paragraph and move it off after our second paragraph,

```JS
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Advanced JavaScript</title>
    <script src="app.js" defer></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1 id="heading-one">Hi there!</h1>
    <p>I'm new!</p>
    <p class="second-paragraph">
      this is a
      <a id="external-link" href="#">link</a>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>

```

> so that the two effectively switch position.

1. For this, we need to get access to this first paragraph, and we already did do that here.

- So I will use this `firstParagraph` variable again,

2. and then we will basically just do something which we already did before when we inserted a new element.

- I will `select the parent element` of the place where I want to insert the element that should be moved.

- And then we can `call append` or insert before to insert this element that should be moved in some place inside of that parent element.

3. So here, since I want to move the paragraph after this other paragraph, I'll `select the body`

> since this is the parent off the place where I want to insert it,

4. and then I will just append this firstParagraph into body,

> which will then effectively insert this paragraph at the end of all the elements inside of body and therefore after the second paragraph.

- => And since I'll be doing that on an existing element instead of a new element, the browser will automatically remove the element here and move it to the new position.

- So I don't need to delete the old element, instead the browser will move it for me.

1. So here we can say `firstParagraph dot parentElement`,

```js
// MOVE ELEMENTS

firstParagraph.parentElement
```

> which is the body,

2. `append firstParagraph`, so to append the first paragraph at the end of the body,

```js
// MOVE ELEMENTS

firstParagraph.parentElement.append(firstParagraph)
```

> which is the parent element of the first paragraph.

> If we save that, then you see indeed, this I'm new this leads to Google paragraph is now the second paragraph appended at the end of body here.

- => And that's how we can move elements around. You can move them around by selecting the parent of the place where they should be inserted and then using append() or insertBefore() there to insert the element there in that place.

And with that, we now know how to add elements, how to remove elements, and how to move elements around.
