# 232. Onwards To Custom Commands! (functions)

- => Now, let's build up on what we learned up to this point.

> We are calculating our adult years here by deducting 18 from the age.

1. Now we can actually switch the order here and do that before I reassign the age. And then thereafter calculate the new adult years, which is age minus 18, again.

```js
let age = 32
let userName = 'Max'
let hobbies = ['Sports', 'Cooking', 'Reading']
let job = {
  title: 'developer',
  place: 'New York',
  salary: 50000,
}

let adultYears = age - 18
age = 45
adultYears = age - 18

alert(adultYears)
```

> So now I'm doing the same thing twice, but I do it for the different age values because, in between, I do assign a new age value.

2. Now I'm still only outputting adult years once down there, though. Hence, if I do that and save this,

> if this reloads, I still only see 27 because I never alert adult years before I recalculated.

3. But of course we could do that. We could also alert it here and then reassign the age and recalculate adult years.

```js
let age = 32
let userName = 'Max'
let hobbies = ['Sports', 'Cooking', 'Reading']
let job = {
  title: 'developer',
  place: 'New York',
  salary: 50000,
}

let adultYears = age - 18
alert(adultYears)

age = 45
adultYears = age - 18

alert(adultYears)
```

> By the way, if you're wondering why I'm sometimes adding an empty line, this is totally optional, not required. I'm just doing it for readability purposes to make my code a bit easier to read. You don't have to add to those blank lines. But back to our code.

> I did now also alert adult years here.

> And hence, of course, we now see 14 and then 27.

- => Now, why am I showing this here? Because, now we again have some code duplication. We are repeating the same step in two different places.

1. And, do you see which step I'm talking about? Which operation I'm talking about?

> I'm talking about the calculation here, where we are deriving adult years.

> Now, of course, we are also repeating this alert code here, for example, but there is an important difference. For alert, we are just executing one command, which is built into the browser.

2. For this operation here, for this calculation, we basically built our own very simple algorithm.

> We have a clearly defined operation that executes certain steps.

> In this case, one key step where we deduct 18 from age.

3. But if this operation would change, if I, for some reason, need to add these values, instead of subtract them, then we have to do this in two places.

4. And we typically want to avoid scenarios like this as a developer.

> We want to be "lazy," as it's sometimes called.

> We don't want to do the same work in different places,

> because if we ever decide that the correct operation would be to use a plus here to add these two values, then we have search our entire code for every occurrences of this operation

> and make the changes there as well, which is annoying and error prone. We can, for example, easily overlook one of the places where adjustments would be needed if we have complex code.

> That's why

- => we typically want to put our own operations into our own clearly defined commands, which have their own name and which we can then reuse by just then using that name, so to say, instead of repeating the entire operation code all the time.

- => So basically like it's working for the built in alert.

> Here, we always repeat the same command, which has the same name. And adding errors here is way harder

> because we get all the completion for that name and so on. And hence, this is a great way of reusing logic. The logic for outputting this alert box with some content.

- => Here, we now also want to write our own command and that's called a function.
