# 292. "Truthy" & "Falsy" Values

```
Now building up on what we learned in the last lecture about storing Booleans and having checks like this,
```

- => there is another important concept in JavaScript, which you don't find in most programming languages, but which is a key part of JavaScript, and which you therefore also have to know.

1. Let's say we have a constant, or a variable, doesn't matter "enteredUserName", and that could be Maximilian. It does not matter.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (!isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}

const enterUserName = 'Maximilian'
```

Now let's assume this is again a value which we actually fetch from some input field, just like we do it in demo.js.

There, we also get some entered value. Let's assume the same is the case here for "enteredUserName."

2. Now we might have some code that should only execute if this is a non empty string. And then, we could say, "Input is valid."

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (!isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}

const enterUserName = 'Maximilian'

if () {
  console.log('Input is valid!')
}
```

- So, we could check if this is a non empty string, if it has a more than zero characters.

3. Now for that, we can write "enteredUserName" and get the length of that string with the length property and check if that's greater than zero.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (!isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}

const enterUserName = 'Maximilian'

if (enterUserName.length > 0) {
  console.log('Input is valid!')
}
```

- And if it is, which it in this case is, then I can save this and I get, "Input is valid."

4. But, if that's all we care about, there is a even shorter way of checking this. We can also write "if enteredUserName," like that.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (!isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}

const enterUserName = 'Maximilian'

if (enterUserName) {
  console.log('Input is valid!')
}
```

- And if I save that, I also get, "Input is valid."

5. And if I go back and I turn this into an empty string,

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (!isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}

const enterUserName = ''

if (enterUserName) {
  console.log('Input is valid!')
}
```

- so no input was provided, then I actually don't get this output. So this also works as we would want it to work. But why?

Because

- => JavaScript has this concept of truthy and falsy values.

- => Now, we have true and false for Booleans, but in a place where JavaScript wants a Boolean, (like in this if condition here,) if you provide a non-Boolean value, JavaScript will basically try to convert that provided value to a Boolean,

- => and it has certain rules for that conversion.

Now I got dedicated deep dive courses where I dive way deeper into all the niche details of how JavaScript does this conversion and I dive into all the tricky cases where this conversion might be strange,

- => but it's generally straightforward.

- => An empty string, or the number zero, will be treated as false.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (!isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}

const enterUserName = '' // 0

if (enterUserName) {
  console.log('Input is valid!')
}
```

- A string with zero inside of it would not be treated as false since this is not an empty string.

- So empty string or zero are basically treated like false.

- => A string with anything in there, (even if it's the text "false,") would be treated as true because it's not empty.

```js
const myName = 'Max'

if (myName === 'Max') {
  console.log('Hello!')
}

let isLoggedIn = true

if (!isLoggedIn) {
  console.log('User is logged in!')
}

const enterUserName = 'false' // '0'
if (enterUserName) {
  console.log('Input is valid!')
}
```

- So it's really only the question of whether it's empty or not that matters.

- => Even a blank character would count as not empty and therefore as true.

- And hence, if you use a string or a number here, then this will be treated as true, if it's not empty or not zero,

- and it will be treated as false if it is an empty string or a zero number.

And that's why this check also works.

This might sound like a niche case, but it actually isn't.

- => Very often you will perform checks like this simply because it's shorter than checking for .length > zero, and it has exactly the same result.

- => So whilst you could do that, this is simply shorter and it works because of this truthy falsy behavior that's built into JavaScript.

Now, if that's still a bit much and a bit confusing at this point, again, don't worry. We'll have many examples throughout this course,

but as we are talking about if statements and Booleans right now, that's definitely all of the concept that needed to be introduced at this point.
