# 394. Diving Into Asynchronous Code & Callback Functions

Now, as a last but very important concept

in this course section,

we'll dive into asynchronous code.

And for that, I'll come back to that readFile example

we had before.

I'll copy the code from errors.js

and add a new async.js file

into which I'll paste that code.

And I'll get rid of the try catch part here

and write it like that instead.

And I will add a data.txt file now actually

where I just say this works,

data from the text file!

So just some basic text that's stored in this text file.

And in async.js, I'll try to read that TXT file

instead of a JSON file.

So I changed that extension.

We also don't need to create a path to that file

since it sits very much next to the code file

where we execute this line of code

and in that case, we can just refer the TXT file

by its name like that.

Now, I'll also get rid of that line here.

And if we now save everything,

and I then execute async.js,

we don't get an error anymore.

Instead, we get this strange buffer thing

but that's just how the file data is actually read in.

This will go away if we, for example,

call toString on FileData to force a conversion

to a human-readable string.

It's a built-in method you can call on basically all objects

and values in JavaScript to force a conversion to a string.

And if I force that with toString here,

and I then execute asynx.js again,

then I see the actual text

that was stored in the file.

Now, of course, that's still nothing new in the end.

Before, we didn't have to do this toString thing

because we used JSON.parse to parse the content

of a JSON file.

Now we have to do it because that's not a JSON file,

and we're not using JSON.parse

but in the end, we're still reading in a file

just as we did it before in the course.

But let's think about that file reading operation here

for a second.

Is there anything about that operation

that could be special?

Well, actually the name of this method

is already a bit strange.

Why is it readFileSync?

Because here we actually force NodeJS

through the file system package

to synchronously process and read that file.

And the opposite of that would be asynchronous processing.

But what's that all about?

Well, the special thing about reading a file

is that this is a process,

which could take quite a while.

We've all been there where we wanted

to open a large PDF or Excel or image file,

and it took a couple of seconds until that file opened

on our system.

Totally outside of NodeJS and coding,

just by double clicking on a file, right?

We all experienced that opening files can take a while.

The bigger a file is, the longer it takes.

And NodeJS code is no exception.

If you open a file programmatically

to read its content and use it in your program,

that can take a while.

Of course, data.txt is a simple, small file,

which will be opened quickly.

But in web development,

and development in general,

it's also quite common

that you work with bigger files with more content.

Now, if you open such a large file

with readFileSync, what happens is that code execution

will be blocked until that file was read in

and parsed by NodeJS.

That means the lines thereafter

will not execute before this line is done.

Now, here that's actually helpful

because outputting the file content

only makes sense after the file was read.

So we wanna wait for this to finish.

But you might have other operations

that you might wanna start at the same time

as you do read that file.

Again, let's say outputting hi there

is something with which we don't want to wait.

Now, of course, we could just put that code

in front of reading the file synchronously

but what if that is also a long-taking operation?

A console.log clearly isn't

but what if we would be reading a database value here?

That could also take quite a while

because we have to establish the connection

to the database, send a request to the database,

query the data and use the data.

So what I'm saying

is that we could have multiple long-taking operations

that are started in the same part of your program.

So therefore, it would be nice

if we could output hi there

and execute line nine before the lines six and eight,

which depend on each other are finished.

And that's where asynchronous code execution

comes into play.

For reading a file,

we actually have this synchronous version

but we also have the asynchronous version

without sync in the name.

Now the code will execute a bit differently.

If we save it like that,

and we then execute async.js, we get an error.

Now I get a invalid callback error here.

And what's that?

Well, readFile now actually requires a second argument,

a second parameter value

that should actually be a function.

Either a function which you defined in advance,

which name you now use

or an anonymous function,

which you define just in time

as we did it before

when we worked with Express and its route handlers.

This is a function, this function here,

that will be executed by readFile

once processing that file is done.

So it's a little bit like adding an event listener

and waiting for clicks.

What we did in the browser earlier in the course.

There we also defined a function

that should be executed once a click occurs.

Now we're defining a function,

in this case, an anonymous function

that should be executed once parsing that file finished.

Now, for the moment,

I'll just console.log file parsing done here,

and then again save everything.

If we now execute this program again,

I get another error.

Cannot read property toString of undefined.

Now, this error is now coming from line 10,

as it also tells you here.

It tells you here that it's line 10

and it even shows you the code line

and the place in code that's causing that issue.

It's this line of code

and specifically the fact

that we're executing toString on fileData.

The problem is that fileData now all

of a sudden is undefined.

That's what it's telling us here.

And you learned that undefined is a built-in value type,

which is basically used if no value exists

in a variable or constant.

Now, why is fileData now undefined

when we did actually parse that file?

Because as I explained,

readFile now starts this file parsing and reading

in a asynchronous way,

which simply means it tells NodeJS to start reading the file

and then it immediately continues

with the next line of code.

In this case, line 10.

It does not wait until reading that file is done.

And even though reading that file

will be super quick in this case,

since it's a small file,

it will still take one or two milliseconds

or something like that.

And therefore, executing this line of code,

line 10, will definitely be quicker

than this file parsing,

even if it is just one millisecond

but the execution of the next line is pretty much instant.

Faster than one millisecond.

Therefore, in line 10, fileData is undefined

because we're not done with reading the file.

And indeed, readFile, when executed like this

in the asynchronous version works totally different

than readFileSync.

It does not return the fileData,

so we can't store the fileData here

in a fileData variable or constant.

Instead, the parsed fileData will only be made available

in this function, a so-called callback function

since it will be called by readFile for us

once it's done with its operation.

Hence, this function here will actually receive values,

parameters passed in automatically by readFile.

To be precise, it will receive an error object,

which will be undefined if no error occurred

but which will hold error information

if reading the file failed.

And it will hold the fileData

if parsing and reading the file did succeed eventually.

Hence, if we then wanna work with that file,

we have to do that from inside this function,

which we pass as a second parameter value to readFile

because only inside of that function,

the fileData will be available.

Not in the code after this code block

because this now starts this asynchronous operation

and the code lines after this asynchronous operation

are executed before that asynchronous operation finished.

And that would allow us to execute and start multiple,

potentially long-taking asynchronous tasks

at the same time without blocking script execution.

So therefore, now with that adjustment made,

if I now execute async.js again,

you see, we first of all see hi there!

That's our first output there

even though it's the last line of code in this function

but it's the first output we get here

because as I said, code execution does directly move on

to line 11 after reading the file was started,

and it does not wait for the file reading to finish.

That's why the output from inside this callback function,

which is only executed once file reading finished appears

after hi there

because it was executed asynchronously.

And it's hopefully clear what the idea here is

and how that asynchronous code execution works.

And the benefit is simply that you can start one

or multiple long-taking operations

without blocking other code execution,

which can speed up your programs by a lot

if you have multiple long-taking operations.

Therefore, it is considered a best practice

to use async functions like this for such tasks.

Now, how do you know which tasks are long-taking

and which tasks aren't?

Well, commonsense already gets you pretty far,

reading a file, talking to a database,

sending some HTTP request,

these are long-taking tasks.

And we'll see examples, plenty of examples

throughout this course.

And in addition, you can always look up the documentation

of some method from a third-party package

or a built-in package to see how it works.

And if you look up the readFile documentation

in the NodeJS documentation,

then you'll learn that this takes a couple of parameters,

and whenever you see a callback parameter,

then this is a synchronous task

because it wants you to specify a function

that should be executed at some point in the future

once the operation finished.

Here in this case, it even tells us

that it asynchronously reads the entire contents

of a file.

So here in this case, we even get an explicit confirmation

that this is an asynchronous task.
