# 228. Introducing Objects (Grouping Related Data)

```
Arrays are a very useful data type, a very useful kind of value for storing related data that can be expressed as a list of data.

Basically, just as we had lists in HTML you could say for outputting related list data.
```

- => Sometimes we also have other kinds of related data which is not just a list but which is related, but needs more context, so which is not just a list of equal values;

> these are all hobbies after all but instead multiple connected values that describe different things.

1. Sounds very abstract. Let's consider a passport or an ID.

> This here, for example, is the German ID, but you have something like this for every country in the world, I would assume.

> And the interesting thing here is that this of course describes related data in the end,

2. but we have labels that tell us which piece of data describes which trait of this person.

> So for example, we have a label for the name and then we have to value the actual name of this person.

> Last name and the first name, we have to date of birth and so on.

3. And we always have these labels and then the values for these labels.

> And overall, of course, we can clearly say that this is related data, all these different pieces of data, describe one person,

> but it's not a list of data because it's not the same kind of data.

> We have names, dates, countries, cities, different kinds of data on there.

> So it's not the same as a list of hobbies

- => and to describe such kind of data as well in JavaScript, we have another important data type, another important value we can create. And that would be objects.

> Let's say our user who visits this website has a job, but a job is not just a string where we say developer, for example,

> but instead, the job could be a combination of different values, where we have the name of the company, the place where he or she works and so on.

1. And for that, we could create such an object. We do that `with curly braces` after this equal sign here.

```js
let age = 32
let userName = 'Max'
let hobbies = ['Sports', 'Cooking', 'Reading']
let job = {}

alert(hobbies[0])
```

> So opening and closing curly brace,

2. and between those curly braces, we now put the different properties of this object, the different labels and their values, that make up, this overall object.

> And we call these label value combinations `properties` in the context of such a object in JavaScript.

> And these labels are up to us. And we could say that a job is described by a title and then maybe the place where this job is being done.

3. And therefore we could add two labels here, a title label, and then separated by a comma, our place label.

```js
let age = 32
let userName = 'Max'
let hobbies = ['Sports', 'Cooking', 'Reading']
let job = {title, place}

alert(hobbies[0])
```

> And again, these labels are up to you. You can use any labels you want.

> Now the labels on their own are not that useful though. If we have a look at our passport again, we did not just have the labels there, but also values for those labels

4. and values are now assigned, not with an equal sign, but by a colon after our labels.

> And then after that colon, before you have that comma, and then the next label you have to value for that label

> and values for labels instead of an object. Can again be all those values you already learned about strings, numbers, arrays, even other objects. So-called nested objects,

> but that's something we'll explore later.

> So here, our title could be a string and that could be `'developer'` for example,

> and then place also needs a value. So we add a colon and then again, a value that makes sense here. So that could again be a string and it's maybe `'New York'`,

> maybe a job also has a Salary. And that could be a number let's say `'50000'` U.S dollars per year or anything like that.

```js
let age = 32
let userName = 'Max'
let hobbies = ['Sports', 'Cooking', 'Reading']
let job = {title: 'developer', place: 'New York', salary: 50000}

alert(hobbies[0])
```

> That could be a job, a rich object where multiple pieces of data are grouped together.

- => Now we could also use three individual variables.

> We could create a variable `let jobTitle = 'Developer'` that store's developer

> and create another variable `jobPlace = 'New York'` that store's New York,

> and create yet another variable `jobSalary = 50000` that store's the 50,000.

> We could use these three variables instead of this job object.

> We could work with a those of variables in our subsequent code as well,

- => but if we use three individual variables, instead of one object, then we as a developer, always have to kind of keep in mind that these three variables are logically related.

> And that might be easy to do, especially in a simple script like this, but it's even easier if you grouped them together explicitly by creating such an object

> just as we created an array for multiple connected list items, instead of working with multiple variables.

- => And that's why here I will not create three individual variables, but instead of one object that has these different properties,

- => by the way, you can of course think about these properties as variables that are a scoped, that belong to one object.

> You don't have to let keyword here though. You just directly have to label name and then the value.

> And you assign that with a colon instead of an equal sign.

> But other than that, it's basically like variables that are closed into that object. So to say.
