# 273. Adding a First "click" Event Listener

- => Now to get started with eventListeners and how that works, I want to start simple here.

1. And I will delete this existing HTML code, which we have. And instead, I'll add a simple paragraph in here where I say, "Click me."

```js
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Advanced JavaScript</title>
    <script src="app.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>Click me!</p>
  </body>
</html>

```

> Now, this is a paragraph. Not a link, not a button. Just a paragraph.

2. I will rename app.js to old-app.js, and add a new app.js file, which is then still being added here to the HTML file. And it's this new file where I want to write my events code.

- => Now the goal is to add an eventListeners to this paragraph, and an eventListener where we listen to the click event. And when that click event occurs, I want to change the content of this paragraph, let's say.

1. I want to change the text content to "Clicked".

> That's my goal, and how can we now do this?

- => First of all, we need to get access to the paragraph because we can't add an eventListeners without having access.

1. Hence, I'll add a new variable here. Paragraph element would be a fitting name since that's what I'll store in there.

```js
let paragraphElement
```

2. And we'll get access to it either with document `body.firstElementChild`, since in this case, the paragraph is my first element child, or as an alternative, since it's my only paragraph with `querySelector P`,

```js
let paragraphElement = document.querySelector('p')
```

> which will select the first, and in this case only, paragraph on the page.

- => Now we got hold of that paragraph, we got access to it. Now, how can we add an eventListener?

> Well, we saw it on the slide.

- => We can use our element and then use the special addEventListener method on it.

```js
let paragraphElement = document.querySelector('p')

paragraphElement.addEventListener()
```

- => addEventListener does what the name implies. It adds an eventListeners to that element.

> Now addEventListener is a method because it's a command we send to the browser, basically telling the browser what it should do.

- => And addEventListener wants two main parameters,

> which I can also see here in this little helper overlay, which opened up.

> You should be getting this overlay as soon as you add the parentheses. If you don't get it, you can always hover over your method here to see more information about it again.

> And here we see a bunch of text, and it can be a bit hard to read this, but here after this opening parentheses, we see our different parameters.

1.  And we see that `the first parameter describes the type of event` in the end.

2.  And `the second parameter after the comma is the listener`, the code that should be executed when an event of that type occurs on that element.

- => Now the (first parameter) the type actually should be a string. That's what addEventListener expects.

> And here I get some auto suggestions, which automatically show me all the events I can listen to for this element on which I'm adding this eventListener.

> And there are tons of events we can listen to. Some of them are very niche-y and rare. Others are very common and events you will use a lot.

- => And here, I'll use a super common event, which you will use very often in Java script development, and that would be the click event.

```js
let paragraphElement = document.querySelector('p')

paragraphElement.addEventListener('click')
```

> With that, we tell the browser that we want to listen to clicks on that paragraph element.

- => Now we also need this second parameter value where we describe what should happen when that click occurs. And for this, we now need to define the code that should execute when that click happens.

> Now, here's one super important thing to know though.

- => We can write the code in this line here, in this exact spot.

1. So I can say "paragraphElement.textContent = "Clicked","

```js
let paragraphElement =
  document.querySelector('p') /
  paragraphElement.addEventListener(
    'click',
    (paragraphElement.textContent = 'Clicked')
  )
```

> which maybe is what I do want to do. I want to make sure that the text content of this paragraph element changes to "Clicked".

> But I can do it like this.

- => Instead here, as a second parameter value, we should point at a function.

- You remember? Functions are our own custom commands. And a function that should be executed when that click occurs,

> because you might remember that earlier in this course, I said that functions are basically code on demand.

> We can write code and put it into a function and then execute it whenever we need it.

> And that's exactly what we can utilize here.

- => We can write code, put it into a function, and then in this case, let the browser execute it whenever a click occurs.

1. And therefore I'll, first of all, add a new function, with help of that function key word.

> And the name is up to you. I will simply name it `"changeParagraphText"`, because that's what this function will do.

```js
let paragraphElement = document.querySelector('p')

function changeParagraphText

paragraphElement.addEventListener('click',)
```

> It will change the text of a paragraph.

2. And then here, we add these parentheses and the curly braces and inside of this function, I will then access paragraphElement.textContent, and set this to "Clicked".

```js
let paragraphElement = document.querySelector('p')

function changeParagraphText() {
  paragraphElement.textContent = 'Clicked'
}

paragraphElement.addEventListener('click')
```

> Now, if you remember that previous course section,

- => you might remember that there I told you that you should try not to access variables that are defined outside of a function inside of a function.

> Instead, you might want to prefer getting a parameter which holds any values you might use in your function.

- => And that's generally true, but you can't always avoid using external variables.

> And here in this case, for example, with this function, the tricky thing will be that we won't call this function ourselves in our code. We won't execute this function somewhere in our code.

> Instead,

- => we will hand this function off to the browser through this eventListener here to let the browser execute it for us at some point in the future, when that click occurs.

> Because as a developer writing this code, we don't know exactly if and when this click will occur.

> Instead we add this eventListener to tell the browser, to listen to it and then do something when it happens.

1. But because of that, here as a second parameter value on addEventListener, we don't execute change paragraph texts like this

```js
let paragraphElement = document.querySelector('p')

function changeParagraphText() {
  paragraphElement.textContent = 'Clicked'
}

paragraphElement.addEventListener('click', changeParagraphText())
```

> by adding the parentheses there after, where we then could add any values of our choice.

> But instead we omit these opening and closing parentheses here.

2. So we just use the function's name here, changeParagraphText, without any parentheses thereafter.

```js
let paragraphElement = document.querySelector('p')

function changeParagraphText() {
  paragraphElement.textContent = 'Clicked'
}

paragraphElement.addEventListener('click', changeParagraphText)
```

- => This is also called "a callback function" : a function that is passed as a parameter value tu another function or method (to be executed in the future)

> If we add them, then we execute this function as soon as this line of code is parsed and executed by the browser.

> But when this line of code here, line seven, is parsed and executed by the browser, we don't want to execute change paragraph texts immediately.

> Instead,

- => the only thing that should happen is that this eventListener is added and the browser is aware of this function that should eventually be executed when the click occurs.

- And we ensure that that is what happens by omitting those opening and closing parentheses.

> With that, we just use the function name and that essentially tells the browser, Hey, don't execute this function yet. Just memorize it, just be aware of it, and please know that you should execute it on my behalf, so to say, on the developers' behalf, when that click on that element occurs.

- => And then that's how we set up such an eventListener and how we define the code that should be executed when the event occurs.

> And then for now, if we saved as app.js file, and we make sure that the updated index HTML file was also saved,

> if I go back and I zoom in a bit, and I click on this "Click me" text here, you'll see it's changed to clicked.

> And that of course happened because of our eventListener.

1. Now if I click again, nothing happens here, but actually that's not entirely true.

- => This eventListener will not just listen to the event once. Instead, it will keep on listening.

> We just don't see any changes on the screen because in reaction to this click event, we always just change the text here to Clicked, so of course we don't see any change.

1. But if I, for example, console.log "Paragraph clicked" here,

```js
let paragraphElement = document.querySelector('p')

function changeParagraphText() {
  paragraphElement.textContent = 'Clicked'
}

paragraphElement.addEventListener('click', changeParagraphText)
```

> then you will see if you save this. If we open the developer tools and go to the console

2. for every click, even after it has changed clicked, a new paragraph clicked text is logged.

> The dev tools are just grouping all these outputs in one output, but you see that this number next to it is incrementing with every click.

> So the event listener is still doing its job and this function is still executing, and whatever you do in there will therefore execute again.

- => But of course, changing the text to something which we can already see, has no effect.
