# 382. Module Introduction

```
As you can probably tell by now, JavaScript is an extremely important programming language as a web developer because we can use it both in the browser, so on the frontend, as well as on the backend when we write server-side code with Node, and possibly with Express as a third-party library as we did it in the previous sections.

Therefore, since JavaScript is that important, in this course section, we are going to dive deeper into it.

And I explicitly wanna emphasize that we are diving into advanced JavaScript in general.
```

- => What you'll learn in this course section applies to both the browser side, so frontend JavaScript if you use JavaScript in the browser, as well as backend server-side JavaScript with NodeJS.

And I mean, in general, up to this point, the vast majority of things you saw applied to both sides; the key certain tags, and the core features apply to both sides.

It's only specific functionalities, like requiring our files as we did it in the previous sections,

requiring packages, working with something like the file system;

these are things which are exclusive to NodeJS. But working with constants, with functions,loops, if statements;that is all general JavaScript code.

- => And in this course section as mentioned, we are going to dive deeper into general JavaScript code.

- => Now for that, in this course section, we are going to take a closer look at `Functions` again, and learn about some new features, and concepts are related to functions.

- => And we will also take another look at `Objects and Arrays` and learn a couple of new things about those concepts.

- => We are also going to take a look behind the scenes of JavaScript, and take a look at `Reference and Primitive Values`, and learn what exactly that is, and why it matters, and why you should understand it.

- => And last but not least, we are also going to explore a concept called `Asynchronous Code`:

Something we haven't really used up to this point, but something we will often need, especially when writing NodeJS code, but also in certain scenarios on the frontend which we'll explore later in the course.

In this course section, I'm going to introduce you to Asynchronous Code, show you what that is, and how we can write such asynchronous code with JavaScript.

- => Now, there's one important thing about this module which I wanna get out of the way right away: This course section will be challenging.

There are many advanced concepts in here, which I will explain as simple examples, but because the examples are simple, it will not always be easy to see why that concept exists.

Because of those simple examples, we don't really face any problems that would be solved by these more complex concepts.

Now, we'll see the more problematic cases later in the course.

But in order to then tackle them appropriately, I already wanna introduce these more advanced concepts here since later course sections will mainly focus on other tasks.

But therefore, don't feel overwhelmed if some concept or the reason for the existence of some concept is not immediately clear in this course section.

We'll see all the concepts taught in this section over and over again in later course sections again. And therefore, this course section here also acts kind of like a reference for a later course sections.

And you can come back to this course module if some concepts taught in this module should still be unclear at a later point in the course.

- => Attached to the last lecture of this course section, you also find a written summary, a cheat sheet which you can also use to look up certain concepts at a later point of time or to also have a written version in case the videos are not enough.

- => Now for all of that, I'm in a brand new empty project, and we will write some JavaScript code here, which we execute with Node,

but we will not build a complete Node web server; instead,

- => we'll just leverage the fact that we can use the Node command to execute JavaScript files since that saves us the hassle of adding an extra HTML file,

which we then have to open and evaluate in the browser all the time.

Nonetheless, as emphasized everything I show you here applies to both the browser side, as well as the backend.
