# 271. Working with "innerHTML"

- => Now, there is another operation or property to be precise Related to inserting, deleting, or moving elements, but primarily related to removing and inserting. (`innerHTML`)

> On HTML elements that you select in your JavaScript code with `getElementById` or a `querySelector`.

> On such elements you also have an `innerHTML` property. And let me show you how that works.

> In this index HTML file we've got a broad variety of content, as we all know.

- => And now let's say we actually wanna change this paragraph this first paragraph, and we want to change the content that's inside of it. And `we actually want to insert a mixture of texts and HTML elements`.

1. For this We first of all, need to get access to that paragraph and conveniently, we already got access here to `firstParagraph`.

```js
let firstParagraph = document.querySelector('p')
```

> It's stored in this variable.

2. Therefore here at the bottom, I want to show you this inner HTML property. And for that, we can use this first paragraph and access the inner HTML property.

```js
// innerHTML

firstParagraph.innerHTML
```

- => Now, `innerHTML` is a bit like `textContent` where text content gives you access to the well text content.

> So to all the text notes that are inside of this element,including texts that might be in nested elements,

- => `innerHTML` gives you access to all the HTML content stored in an element. That could be just the text, but it would `also include other HTML elements`.

1. And to understand this, let me actually console log, first paragraph, inner HTML here at the end of app JS.

```js
// innerHTML

console.log(firstParagraph.innerHTML)
```

> And with that add it, let's open the developer tools. You now see, I get this year in the console.

```js
// innerHTML

console.log(firstParagraph.innerHTML)
//I'm new!<a href="https://google.com">This leads to Google!</a>
```

> It's a mixture of text. I'm new, and this leads to Google and HTML code does anchor element is part of this output here.

2. And that's different. If we compare it to text content, if I console lock the text content of first paragraph,

```js
// innerHTML

console.log(firstParagraph.textContent)
// I'm new!This leads to Google!
```

> then we get just the text content.

> As I mentioned, this includes the text content that might be part of nest at HTML elements like this nested link here.

> And by the way, in case you wondering why we are in the second paragraph instead of the first one, keep in mind that we moved this paragraph around here. So we are operating on the correct one.

- => So innerHTML contains the HTML elements and it's mostly useful if we are not using it to read or output the values, (though, of course we could have used cases for this as well,) but `it is mostly useful if we instead use it to set some new content with the equal sign`,

- just as we can do it for textContent as well.

1. But now we'll do it for innerHTML.

```js
// innerHTML

firstParagraph.innerHTML =
```

- => Because than here there is a major difference compared to textContent. Where as textContent (as the names suggest) wants just text. InnerHTML actually takes a string that `could also contain HTML code`.

- It can contain text and or HTML code.

So here we could say `'Hi! This is`, and then I add a strong HTML element (to emphasize the content between the opening and closing tags.)And here I put `important!'`.

```js
// innerHTML

firstParagraph.innerHTML = 'Hi! This is <strong>important!</strong>'
```

> If we would use textContent to show this first, if we would use text content here, than, if I saved this, you see this gets displayed as text.

> It's not interpreted as an HTML element.It's not parsed as such by the browser and it stands for not translate that into its own Dom object.

> Strong is not translated into a Dom element. Instead it's treated as plain text because we did set text content here.

1. But of course, if we know that we want to insert a mixture of text and HTML elements, we can use innerHTML instead.

> And if I now save this then you'll noticed this is bold because now indeed, this was interpreted and parsed as a HTML element.

> So like all the other elements here,

- => and that's pretty nice to have, because in the end, this means that if you have more complex content that should be inserted, you can do it with innerHTML instead of creating elements with createElement and upending them manually.

> As we're doing it up here in this example,

- => on the other hand, doing it like this (with createElement and upending them manually) has the huge advantage that you have all the JavaScript configuration options for the created element.

> For example, if you want to add an event listener to the new anchor element here, you can easily do that because we create new anchor element here in our JavaScript code anyways. So we have direct access to it.

> That would be more difficult if you do it with inner HTML. Here you would first have to select this element, for example, by giving it an ID and then using get element by ID.

- => But if you don't need direct access to the HTML elements, which you want to create, then of course you can use innerHTML to just output a mixture of text and or HTML elements.

- => And the HTML code you have in this string can be as complex as you want.

- => Just keep in mind that you're not allowed to add line breaks here. So readability could be an issue if this becomes more complex

- => and whilst JavaScript past solutions for this as well, we can ignore them for the moment.

> If you would want a line break here, you could, of course added by concatenating another value.

> So by adding a plus here and then starting a new line,because in that case a line break would actually be allowed, but that's just some additional knowledge which I wanted to pass on here.

- => The most important takeaway here is that you have this innerHTML property and that you can use it to output some text HTML mixture and force the browser to parse and display it

> just as it's displaying all the other HTML code that makes up your page.
