---
recall: header
---

# 47. What Is Flexbox?

*(47.1) What Is Flexbox*...

 
* flexbox was introduced in css version 3 which allows us to align things easily without using floats or frameworks.

*flexbox is basically a modern layout mode in CSS3*...
 
*"flex" is a value for the display property*  
 
we assign flex to the display property just like we have display block display inline display inline block display none.

*replaces floats and it's much more elegant to work with*...

*we can align items both horizontal (row) and vertical (column)*...

*flex items can also be reordered via CSS*...

so we can actually reorder the way that are our items are laid out without having to change the markup without having to change the HTML

*(47.2) a quick look at how it works*...

So let's take a quick look at how it works.  
 
And I'm going to show you all this. Don't worry about it but just really quickly  
 
*if we assign display: flex; to a container div or any container element it creates a flex container.*  
 
OK and we can look at this image here. So let's say that these two boxes are divs inside of a div that we said display flex. OK so we have a flex container

*and then it makes all direct elements flex items.*...

OK so each div or list item it could be any element at all.  
 
Each thing inside that flex container is going to be a flex item

*and it's going to actually align Horizontal in a row by default.*...

So simply putting display flex is going to make all the child elements just automatically align horizontally. So basically like what floats do
 
*but we can also do flex direction column which will align them this way. OK. Align them vertically.*...
 
*Now we have a cross axis which goes up and down and we have a main axis that goes this way.*...

*(47.3) And there's different CSS properties we can use to align our Flex items.*...

So here's some of those properties so we have...

*justify-content*  
 
which will align along the main access.  
 
So basically horizontal along this main access  
 
we have...

*align-items*  
 
which will align items on the cross access. So this way  
 
and then...

*align-content*  
 
which will align when there's extra space in the cross axis.  
 
Basically if we have you know multiple rows of flex items it'll align those  
 
and I mean I know that's confusing just saying it but I will show you and give you examples of all of these.  
 
All right. So let's jump in and let's take a look at the basic fundamentals of flex box.
