# Create the App component

- React relies a lot on what we call components.

We don’t want to write a huge application inside that render() method call. Instead, we want to separate our application into multiple small parts in order to separate everything but also re-use some of those parts multiple times.

- The first and main component we usually create is an App component. It’ll be kind of the main container.

- In /src/, create an `App.js` file.

In that file, create an `App function` and `export it by default`:

```js
export default function App() {}
```

- In that function, `return the following JSX`:

```js
export default function App() {
  return <h1>My Application</h1>
}
```

In `index.js, import` it:

```js
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client'
import App from './App.js'
import './style.css'

const root = createRoot(document.querySelector('#root'))

root.render(
  <div>
    <h1 className='cute-paragraph'>Hello React</h1>

    <p>
      Some
      <br />
      content
    </p>

    <label htmlFor='name'>Name</label>
    <input id='name' type='checkbox' />
  </div>
)
```

- We can now `add it in our render()` as if it were a tag:

```js
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client'
import App from './App.js'
import './style.css'

const root = createRoot(document.querySelector('#root'))

root.render(
  <div>
    <App></App>
  </div>
)
```

There is almost no trick here. Initially, we wrote `<h1>...</h1>` directly, and now, we wrote a component that will return the same `<h1>...</h1>`

And that’s it, we created our first component.

- Components come in handy, not only to separate code, but also to re-use them:

```js
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client'
import App from './App.js'
import './style.css'

const root = createRoot(document.querySelector('#root'))

root.render(
  <div>
    <App></App>
    <App></App>
    <App></App>
    <App></App>
  </div>
)
```

- If there is nothing in it, we can auto-close it:

```js
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client'
import App from './App.js'
import './style.css'

const root = createRoot(document.querySelector('#root'))

root.render(
  <div>
    <App />
  </div>
)
```

- If you try to put content between the opening and closing tags, nothing will happen (for now):

```js
root.render(
  <div>
    <App>Where am I?</App>
  </div>
)
```

- We can also get rid of the parent `<div>`, as long as there is only one top component:

```js
root.render(<App />)
```

- We imported the App class ourselves, but we can also rely on the VSCode (or other software) auto-import by writing the component right inside the JSX:

```js
root.render(
    <Ap // At this point, the software should propose you to import the component
)
```

> `File Extension`

Speaking of extensions, the App.js file can be named .jsx. There was a time when this would be important, but that’s not really the case anymore.

Still, a good practice would be to write components in .jsx files and native JavaScript in .js files. Some code editors will also change the icon of the file accordingly.

It’s not mandatory and we are only going to use .js.

> `Logic code`

- Back to App.js, we can still write JS inside that function right before the return:

```js
export default function App() {
  console.log('JS is still working')

  return <h1>My Application</h1>
}
```

- This is important because this is where we are going to put most of the logic of the component. We can fetch data, create some arrays, calculate things, etc.

> `Hot module reload`

Maybe you have noticed that the logs are staying in the console.

Let’s test that by replacing what you wrote in the console.log:

```js
export default function App() {
  console.log('And this is working too')

  return <h1>My Application</h1>
}
```

And again:

```js
export default function App() {
  console.log('What is happening?')

  return <h1>My Application</h1>
}
```

Now check the console:

As you can see, the logs are persistent and this is not due to the Developer Tools settings. If you reload the page, you should be able to get rid of the logs.

The real reason is that React is using what we call Hot Module Reloading (HMR) in order to re-instantiate only the parts that have changed without reloading the whole page.

This is great, especially with complex applications that take time to instantiate or with long animations that you need to go through in order to see the content you are working on.

- But sometimes it bugs a little, especially with complex environments like Three.js. You can still rely on it, but if you feel that something is odd, `maybe give your app a little reload`.

> `Render`

Another important point to understand is that the whole function will be called every time React renders our component. We will cover this later when `React decides to render the component, but it happens mostly when data changes`.

It doesn’t mean that all DOM elements corresponding to the JSX will be re-rendered. `React will keep the previous structure in memory and only re-render what needs to be re-rendered by using the Virtual DOM` (more about that later).
