# Reactive data with hooks and events

- We are going to create our first reactive data with a simple count variable.

- For the sake of learning, `we are going to do it the wrong way first and then fix it`.

> First reactive data

- Create `a count variable` in the Clicker function, set it to 0 and `display it in the JSX`:

```js
export default function Clicker() {
  let count = 0

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button>Click me</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

- We get the same result, but we are now injecting a variable.

- We now want to know when the user clicks on the button in order to increment `count`.

- We could try with `querySelector` followed by an `addEventListener` but it would be a mess, especially considering that the Clicker function is going to be called every time data changes.

- It also wouldn’t be the React way.

- `The solution is actually very simple.`
- We can add an onClick attribute to the `<button>` and pass it a function.

`First, create a buttonClick function in Clicker:`

```js
export default function Clicker() {
  let count = 0

  const buttonClick = () => {
    console.log('Button has been clicked')
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button>Click me</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

- Then, add the `onClick` attribute on `<button>` and send it the function:

```js
export default function Clicker() {
  let count = 0

  const buttonClick = () => {
    console.log('Button has been clicked')
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button onClick={buttonClick}>Click me</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

- Now, when we click on the button, our buttonClick function will be called as you can see in the console.

- `We can also pass the function directly like this (don’t do it):`

```js
export default function Clicker() {
  let count = 0

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button
        onClick={() => {
          console.log('Button has been clicked')
        }}
      >
        Click me
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

- But let’s stick to a separate function for the sake of readability.

- We used onClick, but as you can guess, there are many different events supported and you can find them here https://reactjs.org/docs/events.html#mouse-events

> `Now let’s make a mistake and increment count in the function:`

```js
export default function Clicker() {
  let count = 0

  const buttonClick = () => {
    count++
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button onClick={buttonClick}>Click me</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

- Although we are incrementing count, nothing is happening in the app and the visible value stays at 0.

- `It’s because our Clicker function isn’t being called again`.

- React doesn’t know that something has changed and that the component needs to be re-rendered.

To fix that, we need to handle variables that change with the “React” way and we are going to use a state.

> The useState hook

- useState is what we call a “hook”.

It’s a function that we call inside the component to do specific tasks related to that component.

There are a bunch of hooks that do different things.

- Here, the task of useState is to `provide us a variable and a function. `

When we want to change the variable, `instead of re-assigning it, we will be using the function.`

- The function won’t just change the variable, it’ll also alert React that the component needs to be re-rendered and we should see the new value appear magically.

Let’s try it.

- 1.  In Clicker, import useState from react:

```js
import { useState } from 'react'

export default function Clicker() {
  let count = 0

  const buttonClick = () => {
    count++
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button onClick={buttonClick}>Click me</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

- 2. At the beginning of the Clicker component, call useState with the initial value we want for the count ,0 in our case (assign it to countState) and log it to see what’s inside (don’t remove count yet):

```js
import { useState } from 'react'

export default function Clicker() {
  const countState = useState(0)
  console.log(countState)

  let count = 0

  const buttonClick = () => {
    count++
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button onClick={buttonClick}>Click me</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

- we get an array with the initial value (0) and a function (the one that we need to call to update the value).

Assign the first value of the countState array ,`[0]`, to a count variable (remove the original count variable to prevent conflicts) and assign the second value, `[1]` to a setCount variable:

```js
import { useState } from 'react'

export default function Clicker() {
  const countState = useState(0)
  const count = countState[0]
  const setCount = countState[1]

  const buttonClick = () => {
    count++
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button onClick={buttonClick}>Click me</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

- Now, in the buttonClick function, instead of incrementing the count variable directly, use the setCount function:

```js
import { useState } from 'react'

export default function Clicker() {
  const countState = useState(0)
  const count = countState[0]
  const setCount = countState[1]

  const buttonClick = () => {
    setCount(count + 1)
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Clicks count: {count}</div>
      <button onClick={buttonClick}>Click me</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

And that’s it! Your UI will update itself automatically when you click on the `<button>`. The whole Clicker function will be called, but React will only update what has changed.

- Note that writing count + 1 doesn’t update the count variable directly. We are only sending the result of the operation to setCount without altering the original variable.

> calling setCount by sending a function to it

- `By the way, there is another way of calling setCount` (and any “setter” function) and it’s by sending a function to it (don’t save yet):

```js
setCount(() => {})
```

- The function will be called and the current state value will be sent as an argument:

```js
setCount((value) => {})
```

- We can then use that value to return whatever we want (value + 1 in our case):

```js
setCount((value) => {
  return value + 1
})
```

And since we are using an arrow function with a return as the only instruction, we can write it like this:

```js
setCount((value) => value + 1)
```

- This will result in the exact same behavior, then why bother?

- This technique makes sure that we are using the latest state value which is useless in our case, but very important if you do asynchronous instructions. As an example, if you try to do it after a few seconds using a setTimeout, the state might have changed when setCount will be called.

- But this is a rare case scenario.

Let’s get back to the previous setCount call we had:

```js
setCount(count + 1)
```

> Destructuring

- Having to create 3 variables (countState, count, setCount) when using useState is a bit long, but there is a better way that actually explains why it’s an array.

- `We can destructure the array into variables`:

```js
export default function Clicker() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0)

  const buttonClick = () => {
    setCount(count + 1)
  }

  // ...
}
```

- This will result in both the count and the setCount variables containing the same thing we had earlier.

- Destructuring is used a lot in React and it also works with objects as we will see later.

> Save in localStorage with the useEffect hook

- Next, we would like to save the value so that, when we close the tab and re-open it, we keep the value.

- In JavaScript, we have access to an API named `localStorage` that lets us save data locally as key and value.

- We want to take that value from localStorage when the component is rendered for the first time and update the value in localStorage when it changes.

- We need a way to do instructions when the component is rendered for the first time and a way to do instructions when the component renders again. Both can be done with the `useEffect hook`.

1. First, in Clicker.js, import useEffect from react:

```js
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react'
```

2. Call it right after the useState and send it a function with a console.log() inside:

```js
export default function Clicker() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0)

  useEffect(() => {
    console.log('hello')
  })

  // ...
}
```

- The log will appear once when the component is rendered for the first time, but also after each change (when we click on the button).

3. To better control when useEffect is being called, we can pass it an array of dependencies as the second argument.

- If that dependencies array is empty, our function will be called only during the first render:

```js
useEffect(() => {
  console.log('First render')
}, [])
```

4. But we can also specify the variables that we want to observe:

```js
useEffect(() => {
  console.log('Count changed')
}, [count])
```

- Here, the function will be called only when count changes.

This gives us the same result as calling useEffect without any dependency because the only variable we have is the count, but it can be interesting if you start having multiple variables in the same component.

> Save in localStorage
